basic	sugar	syrup

2	cups	granulated	sugar
1	cup	(8	fl.	oz.)	cold	water

Put	granulated	sugar	in	a	heavy-based	saucepan,	add	cold	water,	and	let
stand	 for	 5	 minutes	 to	 give	 the	 sugar	 crystals	 time	 to	 absorb	 the	 water
and	 soften.	 Place	 over	 a	 low	 heat,	 stirring	 occasionally	 until	 the	 sugar
has	completely	dissolved	and	the	liquid	is	clear.	Bring	to	the	boil,	then
lower	 the	 heat	 again,	 and	 simmer	 for	 1	 minute.	 Remove	 the	 pan	 from
the	 stove,	 skim	 any	 scum	 from	 the	 surface	 of	 the	 syrup,	 and	 leave	 to
cool.	Pour	into	jars,	cover,	and	store.

equipment
Screw-top	jars,	ordinary	kitchen	spoons,	wooden	rolling	pins,	or	pestles,
measuring	spoons	or	cups,	and	a	cooler	packed	with	ice,	can	all	double
as	shakers,	stirrers,	muddlers,	jiggers,	and	ice	buckets,	but	if	you	plan	to
become	 a	 serious	 cocktail	 maker,	 it’s	 worth	 investing	 in	 proper,	 good-
quality	equipment.

jigger

A	spirit	measure,	usually	with	a	cup	at	each	end.	The	smaller	cup	holds	a
single	shot	of	
1	fl.	oz.	(equivalent	to	2	tablespoons),	the	larger	a	double	shot	of	2	fl.	oz.
(4	tablespoons).	
Get	 comfortable	 with	 using	 a	 jigger	 when	 making	 cocktails,	 even	 if
you’re	measuring	less	than	1	fl.	oz.	Soon	you’ll	use	it	with	as	much	ease
as	a	measuring	spoon	or	cup.

bar	spoon

A	 long-handled	 spoon,	 made	 of	 stainless	 steel,	 with	 a	 fairly	 flat	 bowl.
Used	 for	 stirring	 drinks	 and	 for	 pouring	 one	 spirit	 on	 top	 of	 another
when	making	layered	cocktails.

muddler

A	wooden,	pestle-like	tool	used	to	mash	or	squash	fresh	fruit	and	herbs
together	 in	 the	 bottom	 of	 a	 glass	 or	 shaker	 to	 release	 their	 aroma	 and
flavor.

shaker

Two	basic	types	of	cocktail	shaker	are	available.	The	standard	model	is
made	 of	 stainless	 steel	 and	 generally	 consists	 of	 three	 components:	 a
canister	for	holding	ice,	a	tight-fitting	lid	with	a	built-in	strainer,	and	a
twist-off	 cap.	 The	 Boston	 shaker	 usually	 comes	 in	 two	 pieces:	 a	 mixing
glass	 as	 the	 base	 and	 a	 stainless	 steep	 top.	 A	 strainer	 —	 such	 as	 the
popular	 hawthorn	 strainer	 —	 is	 needed	 to	 filter	 the	 cocktail	 from	 this
type	 of	 shaker	 into	 a	 glass.	 A	 shaker	 may	 be	 glamorous,	 but	 a	 jam	 jar
with	a	tight-fitting	screw-top	lid	will	work	equally	well.

electric	blender

A	 real	 timesaver	 for	 making	 crushed	 ice.	 A	 heavy-duty	 blender	 or	 food
processor	with	robust	blades	and	a	powerful	motor	is	needed	to	crush	ice
cubes,	otherwise	break	them	up	first	by	placing	them	in	a	strong	plastic
bag	and	bashing	with	a	hammer	or	rolling	pin.	To	extend	the	life	of	the
blades,	process	the	fruit	or	other	ingredients	before	adding	the	ice.

measuring	cup

A	large	measuring	cup	is	useful	for	mixing	large	quantities	of	cocktails.
Make	up	batches	and	keep	in	sealed	jars	or	bottles	in	the	fridge.	Shake
well	before	serving.

ice	cube	bags

These	take	up	less	room	in	the	freezer	than	ice	cube	trays.	You	can	pull
out	just	the	number	of	cubes	you	need	rather	than	having	to	empty	the
whole	tray.

ice	bucket

Essential	for	storing	ice	cubes.	Use	tongs	or	a	small	scoop	to	dispense	the
ice	 —	 never	 your	 hands.	 Not	 only	 is	 it	 unhealthy	 —	 frozen	 fingers	 are
agony!

kitchen	basics

A	 small	 serrated	 knife,	 vegetable	 peeler	 (for	 shaving	 off	 strips	 of	 zest),
chopping	 board,	 citrus	 press	 or	 basic	 lemon	 squeezer,	 cloth	 to	 wipe	 up
spills,	 serving	 tray,	 and	 coasters	 are	 all	 useful	 to	 have	 at	 hand	 when
preparing	and	serving	cocktails.

the	right	glass
Each	 type	 of	 cocktail	 has	 its	 own	 special	 shape	 of	 glass,	 but	 as	 long	 as
you	 follow	 a	 few	 basic	 rules,	 it’s	 not	 necessary	 to	 invest	 in	 all	 the
different	styles.


Shot	 glasses	 are	 small,	 straight-sided,	 and	 used	 for	 single	 measures	 of
spirit,	that	are	drunk	neat.	Short	drinks	served	“on	the	rocks”	need	plain,
squat	 tumblers	 known	 as	 shorts,	 sours,	 or	 old-fashioned	 glasses.	 Those
with	 solid	 glass	 studs	 covering	 the	 base	 are	 designed	 for	 slammers	 and
therefore	 tougher	 than	 standard	 tumblers,	 as	 they	 must	 survive	 being
banged	sharply	on	the	table	top	before	the	drink	inside	is	tossed	down.


Tall,	straight	highball	glasses	and	the	slightly	deeper	collins	glasses	are
for	long,	mixed	drinks,	while	the	iconic	Martini	glass	is	stemmed	with	a
wide,	 triangular	 bowl.	 When	 simply	 a	 cocktail	 glass	 is	 specified	 in	 a
recipe,	 any	 small,	 stemmed	 glass	 that	 is	 wide	 at	 the	 top	 can	 be	 used,
including	a	Martini	glass.


Saucer-shaped	 champagne	 glasses	 might	 look	 spectacular	 stacked	 high
for	a	sparkling	wine	pyramid	fountain,	but	their	lack	of	depth	means	the
bubbles	 in	 the	 wine	 disappear	 almost	 as	 soon	 as	 it	 is	 poured.	 For
champagne	 cocktails	 or	 any	 others	 made	 with	 sparkling	 wine,	 tall-
stemmed	 flutes	 are	 best	 because	 they	 trap	 the	 bubbles	 in	 the	 glass	 for
longer.	Any	cocktail	served	without	ice	should	be	poured	into	a	stemmed
glass	so	the	drinker’s	hand	doesn’t	warm	the	cool	mix	inside.


Creamy	piña	coladas	and	other	blended	drinks	—	particularly	those	from
the	 Caribbean	 islands	 —	 are	 often	 served	 in	 stemmed	 goblets	 or	 tulip-
shaped	 glasses,	 while	 large-bowled	 brandy	 balloons	 allow	 plenty	 of
leeway	 for	 swirling	 and	 inhaling	 the	 spirit’s	 aroma.	 When	 choosing
glasses,	 one	 with	 a	 fine	 rim	 is	 generally	 more	 pleasant	 to	 drink	 from
than	a	
thick-edged,	heavy	glass,	and	a	long,	slender	stem	sits	more	comfortably
in	the	hand.




preparing	glasses

Always	 chill	 glasses	 in	 the	 freezer	 for	 half	 an	 hour	 (no	 longer	 or	 they
might	crack)	or	in	the	refrigerator	for	an	hour.	To	frost	a	glass,	bury	it	in
crushed	ice	or	leave	it	in	the	fridge	until	very	cold.	When	serving	long,
  mixed	 drinks,	 fill	 highball	 glasses	 half	 to	 three-quarters	 full	 with	 ice
  cubes	before	pouring	in	the	drink.	Never	reuse	ice;	it	must	be	fresh	every
  time.




  salting	or	sugaring	the	rim

  Rub	the	rim	of	the	glass	with	a	wedge	of	lemon	or	lime,	and	dip	the	rim
  in	 fine	 salt	 or	 superfine	 sugar,	 depending	 on	 the	 cocktail	 you	 are
  making.

tom	collins (see	variations)
2	fl.	oz.	gin
1	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lemon	juice
1	tbsp.	sugar	syrup
Ice	cubes
Soda	water
Lemon	slice,	to	decorate

Put	 the	 gin,	 lemon	 juice,	 and	 sugar	 syrup	 in	 a	 tall	 glass,	 three-quarters
filled	with	ice	cubes,	and	top	off	with	soda	water.	Stir,	decorate	the	glass
with	a	slice	of	lemon,	and	a	stirrer.

Serves	1

harvey	wallbanger (see	variations)
Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
1	fl.	oz.	Galliano
Orange	wedge,	to	garnish

Half-fill	a	tall	glass	with	ice	cubes.	Pour	in	the	vodka	and	orange	juice,
stir	well,	and	then	float	the	Galliano	on	top,	carefully	pouring	it	over	the
back	 of	 a	 bar	 spoon.	 Serve	 with	 a	 stirrer	 and	 straw.	 Hook	 an	 orange
wedge	 over	 the	 side	 of	 the	 glass.	 Before	 drinking,	 squeeze	 orange	 into
the	cocktail	and	drop	it	into	the	glass.

Serves	1

raffles	singapore	sling (see	variations)
Ice	cubes
1	fl.	oz.	gin
3/4	fl.	oz.	cherry	brandy
1/2	fl.	oz.	Cointreau
1/2	fl.	oz.	Benedictine
1/2	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
2	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
3	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
Dash	of	Grenadine
Dash	of	Angostura	bitters
Slice	of	pineapple	and	a	maraschino	cherry,	to	decorate

Serves	1

blue	lagoon (see	variations)
Crushed	ice
1	fl.	oz.	vodka
1	fl.	oz.	Blue	Curacao
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	lemonade
Lime	wedge,	to	decorate

Serves	1

cape	codder (see	variations)
Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
5	fl.	oz.	cranberry	juice
Lemon	or	lime	wedge,	to	decorate
Serves	1

cuba	libre (see	variations)
Ice	cubes	or	crushed	ice
2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
5	fl.	oz.	cola
1	lime

Serves	1

long	island	iced	tea (see	variations)
Ice	cubes
1/2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
1/2	fl.	oz.	gin
1/2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	fl.	oz.	tequila
1/2	fl.	oz.	Cointreau	or	Triple	Sec
1	tbsp.	fresh	lime	juice
Cola	(to	taste)
Lime	and	orange	zest,	to	decorate

Serves	1

sea	breeze (see	variations)
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
3	fl.	oz.	cranberry	juice
3	fl.	oz.	grapefruit	juice
Crushed	ice

Serves	1

horse’s	neck (see	variations)
Dash	of	Angostura	bitters
Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	brandy
5	fl.	oz.	ginger	ale
1	lemon

Serves	1

tequila	sunrise (see	variations)
Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	tequila
3/4	cup	(6	fl.	oz.)	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
Generous	dash	of	Grenadine
Orange	slice	and	fresh	cherry,	to	decorate

Serves	1

moscow	mule (see	variations)

Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
Juice	of	1	lime
5	fl.	oz.	ginger	beer
Lime	slices	and	mint	sprigs,	to	decorate

Serves	1

screwdriver (see	variations)
1	1/2	fl.	oz.	vodka
Crushed	ice
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
Orange	slice	or	wedge,	to	decorate

Serves	1

tom	collins variations

john	collins
Replace	 the	 gin	 with	 bourbon	 or	 whiskey	 and	 replace	 the	 lemon	 slice
with	an	orange	slice.

jean-paul	collins
Replace	the	gin	with	French	brandy	and	replace	the	lemon	slice	with	a
maraschino	cherry.

caribbean	collins
Replace	the	gin	with	white	rum	and	replace	the	lemon	slice	with	a	lime
slice.

moscow	collins
Replace	 the	 gin	 with	 vodka	 and	 replace	 the	 lemon	 slice	 with	 a
strawberry.

acapulco	collins
Replace	 the	 gin	 with	 tequila	 and	 replace	 the	 lemon	 slice	 with	 a	 lime
wedge.

harvey	wallbanger variations


long,	tall	wallbanger
Pour	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 vodka	 and	 a	 dash	 of	 Galliano	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 half-filled
with	crushed	ice	and	top	off	with	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice.


lime	mandarin	wallbanger
Replace	 the	 orange	 juice	 with	 mandarin	 orange	 juice	 and	 the	 orange
wedge	with	a	wedge	of	lime.
bison	wallbanger
Rather	 than	 sticking	 with	 plain	 vodka,	 experiment	 by	 using	 a	 flavored
vodka	 such	 as	 Bison	 with	 its	 grassy	 hints	 of	 lavender	 and	 herbs.	 Try
different	flavored	vodkas	—	there	are	many	available,	including	Toffee,
Melon,	Coconut.


stiletto
Replace	the	orange	juice	with	the	pulp	of	4	passion	fruit,	which	has	to
be	warmed	gently	to	separate	the	pulp	from	the	seeds	and	strained.	Mix
with	 1	 tablespoon	 of	 peach,	 passion	 fruit,	 or	 nectarine	 juice,	 and	 pour
into	the	glass	with	the	vodka.	Decorate	with	a	wedge	of	passion	fruit.


salty	dog
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe	 but	 replace	 the	 orange	 juice	 with	 2	 fl.	 oz.
grapefruit	juice	and	pour	the	cocktail	into	a	glass	with	a	salt-crusted	rim.
variations


raffles	singapore	sling




see	base	recipe


citrus	sling
Replace	the	pineapple	juice	with	grapefruit	juice	and	use	blood	or	blush-
orange	 juice.	 Omit	 the	 Grenadine	 and	 add	 1	 teaspoon	 of	 sugar	 syrup.
Serve	with	just	a	cherry.


long	bar	sling
Instead	of	making	the	basic	recipe,	shake	together	half	a	dozen	ice	cubes
with	2	fl.	oz.	gin,	1/2	fl.	oz.	Benedictine,	1	fl.	oz.	cherry	brandy,	and	the
juice	of	1	orange.	Strain	into	a	tall	glass	and	top	off	with	soda	water.
cherry	gin	sling
For	an	even	simpler	but	equally	refreshing	sling,	pour	2	fl.	oz.	gin	and	1
fl.	 oz.	 cherry	 brandy	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 half-filled	 with	 ice	 cubes.	 Top	 off
with	soda	water	and	decorate	with	a	maraschino	cherry.


straits	sling
Instead	of	making	the	basic	recipe,	shake	together	1	fl.	oz.	gin,	1/2	fl.	oz.
each	 of	 cherry	 brandy	 and	 Benedictine,	 1	 teaspoon	 orange	 bitters,	 and
the	juice	of	1/2	lemon.	Top	off	with	soda	water.


vodka	sling
Replace	the	gin	with	vodka,	adding	a	double	measure	if	you	want	a	kick.
variations


blue	lagoon




see	base	recipe


pineapple	lagoon
Pour	 the	 vodka	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 over	 crushed	 ice,	 add	 1/2	 cup	 fresh
pineapple	 juice	 instead	 of	 lemonade,	 and	 stir	 well.	 Float	 the	 Blue
Curacao	on	top.


eve’s	lagoon
Replace	the	lemonade	with	sparkling	apple	juice.


grape	lagoon
Replace	the	lemonade	with	white	grape	juice	or	dry	white	wine.


sunrise	over	the	lagoon
Add	a	dash	of	Grenadine	and	wait	for	it	to	sink	to	the	bottom	of	the	glass
before	drinking.


sleepy	lagoon
Replace	the	vodka	with	gin	or	tequila.
variations


cape	codder




see	base	recipe


rum	codder
Replace	the	vodka	with	white	rum	and	add	a	squeeze	of	lime	juice.


gin	codder
Replace	the	vodka	with	gin	and	serve	with	a	twist	of	orange	instead	of	a
lemon	or	lime	wedge.


lemon	codder
Replace	 the	 plain	 vodka	 with	 lemon	 vodka	 and	 serve	 with	 a	 twist	 of
lemon.


tequila	codder
Replace	the	vodka	with	tequila	and	serve	with	orange	and	lemon	slices
tucked	over	the	edge	of	the	glass.


bourbon	codder
Replace	 the	 vodka	 with	 bourbon	 and	 serve	 with	 a	 lemon	 wedge	 and	 a
maraschino	cherry.
variations


cuba	libre




see	base	recipe


sundowner	libre
Replace	 the	 white	 rum	 with	 dark	 or	 gold	 rum	 and	 the	 lime	 with	 an
orange	wedge.


amaretto	libre
Replace	half	the	rum	with	Amaretto	Disaronno	liqueur.


tequila	libre
Replace	the	rum	with	tequila	and	serve	with	a	lemon	wedge.


comfort	libre
Replace	 the	 rum	 with	 Southern	 Comfort	 and	 squeeze	 in	 the	 juice	 from
one	quarter	of	an	orange.


low-cal	libre
Halve	the	rum	amount	and	increase	the	quantity	of	cola	to	3/4	cup	(6	fl.
oz.)	but	using	diet	cola.
variations


long	island	iced	tea




see	base	recipe


lemon	tea
Top	off	with	Bitter	Lemon	rather	than	cola	and	drop	a	slice	of	lemon	into
the	drink.


mint	green	tea
Replace	 the	 Cointreau	 with	 green	 Crème	 de	 Menthe.	 Decorate	 with	 a
sprig	of	fresh	mint.


long	cool	iced	tea
Omit	the	tequila,	gin,	and	Cointreau.	Pour	the	rum	and	vodka	into	a	tall
glass	over	crushed	ice	rather	than	cubes	and	stir	in	the	lime	juice	with	1
teaspoon	sugar	syrup.	Top	off	with	cola	and	decorate	with	a	lime	wedge.


apple	tea
Top	off	with	sparkling	apple	juice	rather	than	cola.	Instead	of	lime	and
orange	zest,	drop	a	couple	of	apple	slices	into	the	drink.


russian	tea
Omit	the	rum	and	gin	and	increase	the	quantity	of	vodka	to	1	1/2	fl.	oz.
using	 lemon	 vodka	 instead	 of	 plain.	 Decorate	 with	 a	 lemon	 wedge
instead	of	lime	and	orange	zest.
variations


sea	breeze




see	base	recipe


deep	purple	breeze
Add	a	splash	of	Blue	Curacao	to	the	glass	and	stir	it	in.


virgin	breeze
Omit	 the	 vodka	 and	 increase	 the	 amounts	 of	 cranberry	 juice	 and
grapefruit	juice	to	4	fl.	oz.	Add	a	squeeze	of	lime	juice.


thirties	breeze
Replace	 the	 grapefruit	 juice	 with	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 apricot	 brandy	 and	 a	 good
squeeze	of	lemon	juice.	Replace	the	cranberry	juice,	if	you	wish,	with	a
splash	of	Grenadine.


hawaiian	breeze
Replace	the	grapefruit	juice	with	pineapple	juice,	and	the	cranberry	juice
with	orange	juice.	Add	a	splash	of	Grenadine	and	a	twist	of	lime.


cool	breeze
Reduce	the	vodka	to	1	fl.	oz.	and	replace	the	grapefruit	juice	with	soda
water.
variations


horse’s	neck




see	base	recipe


on	the	hoof
Replace	the	brandy	with	gin	and	replace	the	lemon	zest	with	a	spiral	of
orange	zest.


bourbon	racing	cert
Replace	the	brandy	with	bourbon.	Decorate	glass	with	a	spiral	of	lemon
or	lime	zest.


old	nag
Replace	the	Angostura	with	2	or	3	dashes	of	orange	bitters.


italian	thoroughbred
Replace	the	brandy	with	1	fl.	oz.	grappa	and	1/2	fl.	oz.	each	of	sweet	red
vermouth	and	dry	white	vermouth.	Pour	the	spirits	over	ice	and	top	off
with	the	ginger	ale.


champion	hurdler
Replace	half	the	ginger	ale	with	orange	juice	and	decorate	the	glass	with
an	orange	wedge.
variations


tequila	sunrise




see	base	recipe


tequila	sun-light
For	 a	 lighter	 drink,	 mix	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 orange	 juice	 with	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 tequila	 and
strain	into	a	glass.	Add	a	dash	of	Grenadine	and	wait	for	it	to	sink	to	the
bottom.


mexican	sunrise
Replace	the	orange	juice	with	pineapple	juice.


strawberry	sunrise
Instead	of	making	the	basic	recipe,	pour	1	fl.	oz.	tequila	and	1	1/2	fl.	oz.
strawberry	liqueur	into	a	tall	glass	over	4	or	5	ice	cubes	and	top	off	with
orange	juice.	Wait	for	the	strawberry	liqueur	to	sink	to	the	bottom,	and
serve	decorated	with	an	orange	slice	and	a	fresh	strawberry.	Serve	with
a	straw	and	a	stirrer.


blue-day	haze
Half-fill	a	tall	glass	with	ice	cubes;	add	1	fl.	oz.	Blue	Curacao	and	1	fl.
oz.	tequila;	and	top	off	with	soda	water.	The	blue	Curacao	will	settle	at
the	bottom	of	the	glass.


soda	sunrise
Replace	 half	 the	 orange	 juice	 with	 soda	 water	 to	 give	 the	 drink	 a	 light
spritz.
variations


moscow	mule




see	base	recipe


orange	bitters	mule
Add	a	couple	of	dashes	of	orange	bitters	instead	of	a	lime.	Decorate	with
an	orange	slice.


gingered	apple	mule
Replace	half	the	ginger	beer	with	still	or	sparkling	apple	juice.	Instead	of
the	lemon	zest,	drop	2	or	3	thin	apple	wedges	into	the	drink.


highland	mule
Replace	the	vodka	with	Scotch	whiskey	and	the	lime	juice	with	the	juice
of	half	an	orange.	Replace	the	lime	slices	and	mint	sprigs	with	a	twist	of
orange	and	a	maraschino	cherry.


brandy	mule
Replace	the	vodka	with	brandy	and	the	lime	juice	with	1	tablespoon	of
lemon	juice.	Replace	the	lime	slices	with	a	lemon	wedge.


stubborn	mule
Replace	the	ginger	beer	with	ginger	ale.	Replace	the	lime	slices	with	an
orange	wedge.
variations


screwdriver




see	base	recipe


sparkling	screw
Replace	the	ordinary	vodka	with	one	of	the	new	sparkling	vodkas	or,	for
a	less	alcoholic	tipple,	use	half	vodka	and	half	sparkling	mineral	water.


comfortable	screw
Replace	the	vodka	with	Southern	Comfort	and	add	a	maraschino	cherry
to	the	glass.


slow	comfortable	screw	against	the	wall
Reduce	the	amount	of	vodka	to	1/2	fl.	oz.	and	add	the	same	quantity	of
sloe	gin	and	Southern	Comfort.	Top	off	glass	with	orange	juice	and	float
a	little	Galliano	on	top	to	make	the	“wall.”


ghostly	screw
Celebrating	 Halloween?	 Then	 spook	 your	 guests	 with	 genuine	 “black”
vodka	—	not	the	clear	spirit	distilled	from	black	Russian	potatoes	but	the
one	colored	with	catechu,	a	herb	native	to	Africa	and	southern	Asia.


scarlet	screw
Replace	ordinary	orange	juice	with	freshly	squeezed	blood	orange	juice.
chic	&	cool



Served	in	frosted	glasses	with	long	stems,	these	“short”	drinks
tell	 you	 all	 you	 need	 to	 know	 about	 how	 the	 word	 “cocktail”
became	 synonymous	 with	 sophistication	 and	 intrigue.	 Many
were	 created	 or	 inspired	 by	 the	 legendary	 bartenders	 of	 the
’20s,	’30s,	and	’40s,	and	they	are	just	as	popular	today.
  between	the	sheets
  see	variations
  In	the	heady	days	of	1930s	America,	bartenders	vied	with	each	other	to
  keep	 their	 customers	 coming	 back	 for	 more	 by	 creating	 cocktails	 with
  more	 and	 more	 seductive	 names.	 This	 sexy	 mix	 was	 an	 instant	 success
  and	remains	just	as	popular	today.

1	fl.	oz.	white	rum
1	fl.	oz.	brandy
1	fl.	oz.	Cointreau	or	Triple	Sec
1	fl.	oz.	lemon	juice
Twist	of	lemon	zest

  Put	 the	 rum,	 brandy,	 Cointreau	 or	 Triple	 Sec,	 and	 lemon	 juice	 in	 a
  cocktail	shaker,	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	chilled	cocktail	glass
  and	serve	decorated	with	a	twist	of	lemon	zest.




  Serves	1
stinger




see	variations
  Before	 the	 days	 of	 Prohibition,	 this	 relaxing	 pick-me-up	 was	 served
  straight	up,	but	gradually	more	and	more	customers	began	requesting	it
  served	 on	 the	 rocks	 in	 a	 sours	 or	 an	 old-fashioned	 glass.	 Which	 way	 is
  best?	You	choose!

1	1/2	fl.	oz.	brandy
3/4	fl.	oz.	white	Crème	de	Menthe

  Stir	 the	 brandy	 and	 Crème	 de	 Menthe	 together	 and	 pour	 into	 a	 well-
  chilled	cocktail	glass.	Serve	with	a	stirrer.




  Serves	1
negroni




see	variations
  In	 the	 early	 twentieth	 century,	 Count	 Camillo	 Negroni,	 a	 Florentine
  nobleman	and	a	regular	in	the	city’s	Casoni	Bar,	wanted	a	change	from
  his	 usual	 Americano	 cocktail,	 so	 he	 ordered	 it	 spiked	 with	 a	 little	 gin.
  Happy	to	oblige	a	valued	customer,	the	bartender	promptly	created	the
  perfect	predinner	drink	—	a	mellow	harmony	of	bitter	and	sweet	that’s
  guaranteed	to	stimulate	the	appetite.

Ice	cubes
1	fl.	oz.	Campari
1	fl.	oz.	sweet	red	vermouth
1	fl.	oz.	gin
Twist	of	orange,	to	decorate

  Half-fill	 a	 cocktail	 shaker	 with	 ice;	 add	 the	 Campari,	 sweet	 vermouth,
  and	 gin;	 and	 shake	 well.	 Strain	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 cocktail	 glass	 and
  serve	with	a	twist	of	orange.




  Serves	1
cosmopolitan




see	variations
  The	Cosmo,	as	it	is	affectionately	known,	is	definitely	one	for	the	ladies,
  in	 particular	 those	 four	 sassy	 New	 Yorkers	 from	 Sex	 and	 the	 City.
  Bartender	Cheryl	Cook	takes	the	credit	for	inventing	the	Cosmopolitan	in
  the	 1980s	 at	 her	 South	 Beach	 bar	 in	 Florida,	 but	 a	 similar	 drink	 was
  popular	 before	 that	 during	 the	 late	 1970s	 at	 San	 Francisco’s	 gay	 bars.
  However,	it	was	only	when	Toby	Cecchini	began	serving	Cosmopolitans
  at	 his	 Odeon	 bar	 in	 New	 York	 in	 the	 1990s	 that	 it	 became	 the	 iconic
  cocktail	it	is	today.

Ice	cubes
1	1/2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1	fl.	oz.	Triple	Sec
1	fl.	oz.	cranberry	juice
1	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
Wedge	of	lime,	to	decorate

  Half-fill	a	cocktail	shaker	with	ice	cubes	and	add	the	vodka,	Triple	Sec,
  cranberry	 juice,	 and	 lime	 juice.	 Shake	 and	 strain	 into	 a	 well-chilled
  martini	glass.	Tuck	a	wedge	of	lime	over	the	side	of	the	glass	and	serve.




  Serves	1
gimlet




see	variations
  Back	 in	 the	 days	 when	 both	 spirits	 and	 beers	 were	 stored	 in	 wooden
  barrels,	 bartenders	 used	 a	 small,	 sharp	 tool	 called	 a	 gimlet	 to	 tap	 into
  them.	This	inspired	the	creation	
  of	 this	 short,	 citrusy	 cocktail.	 In	 1953	 Raymond	 Chandler	 added	 to	 the
  gimlet’s	popularity	by	making	it	a	favorite	tipple	of	his	legendary	private
  eye,	Philip	Marlowe,	
  in	The	Long	Goodbye.

1	1/2	fl.	oz.	gin
1	1/2	fl.	oz.	lime	cordial
Cracked	ice	cubes
Small	lime	wedge,	to	decorate

  Put	the	gin,	lime	cordial	(such	as	Rose’s	Lime	Juice,	or	mix	equal	parts
  sugar	 syrup	 and	 fresh	 lime	 juice),	 and	 4	 or	 5	 cracked	 ice	 cubes	 into	 a
  cocktail	shaker,	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	well-chilled	cocktail
  glass	and	serve	decorated	with	a	small	wedge	of	lime.




  Serves	1
manhattan




see	variations
  Nobody	 can	 say	 for	 sure	 when	 and	 where	 this	 celebrated	 cocktail	 was
  created,	but	one	theory	harks	back	to	1846	when	a	Maryland	bartender
  mixed	while	trying	to	revive	a	customer	who	had	been	injured	in	a	duel.
  Another	 points	 to	 Winston	 Churchill’s	 mother,	 Jenny	 Jerome,	 who	 in
  1874	reputedly	asked	the	Manhattan	Club	in	New	York	City	to	invent	a
  cocktail	 for	 a	 banquet	 she	 was	 hosting	 in	 honor	 of	 Governor	 Samuel	 J.
  Tilden.	 However,	 as	 historians	 have	 since	 pointed	 out,	 when	 the	 event
  was	supposedly	taking	place,	Jenny	was	far	away	in	England	giving	birth
  to	her	famous	son.

2	fl.	oz.	whisky
1	fl.	oz.	sweet	red	vermouth
1	dash	of	Angostura	bitters
Ice	cubes
Maraschino	cherry,	to	decorate

  Pour	the	whiskey,	vermouth,	and	bitters	into	a	mixing	glass;	add	4	or	5
  ice	cubes;	and	stir	well.	Strain	into	a	well-chilled	cocktail	glass	and	serve
  with	a	maraschino	cherry.




  Serves	1
  lemon	drop
  see	variations


  Sharp	 and	 sweet,	 this	 cool	 lemon	 classic	 is	 guaranteed	 to	 turn	 a	 quiet
  evening	into	something	special.	Sugar	the	rim	of	the	glass	and	chill	well
  before	pouring	in	the	seductive	citrus	mix.

Lemon	wedge
Superfine	sugar
Ice	cubes
1/2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	fl.	oz.	Limoncello
1/2	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lemon	juice
Lemon	slice,	to	serve

  Rub	 the	 rim	 of	 a	 cocktail	 glass	 with	 the	 lemon	 wedge.	 Dip	 the	 rim	 in
  superfine	sugar	and	chill	well.	Half-fill	a	cocktail	shaker	with	ice	cubes;
  add	 the	 vodka,	 Limoncello,	 and	 lemon	 juice;	 and	 shake	 vigorously.
  Strain	into	the	glass	and	serve	decorated	with	a	lemon	slice.




  Serves	1
  sidecar
  see	variations


  Here’s	 another	 classic	 reputedly	 created	 at	 the	 end	 of	 World	 War	 I	 by
  legendary	 barman,	 Harry	 McElhone,	 for	 one	 of	 the	 regulars	 who
  frequented	 his	 New	 York	 Bar	 in	 Paris.	 The	 customer,	 an	 army	 captain,
  always	arrived	at	the	bar	riding	in	the	sidecar	of	a	motorbike	driven	by
  his	chauffeur.

Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	brandy
1	fl.	oz.	Cointreau
1	fl.	oz.	freshly-squeezed	lemon	juice
Twist	of	orange,	to	serve

  Half-fill	 a	 cocktail	 shaker	 with	 ice	 cubes	 and	 pour	 in	 the	 brandy,
  Cointreau,	 and	 lemon	 juice.	 Shake	 hard	 and	 strain	 into	 a	 well-chilled
  cocktail	glass.	Decorate	with	a	twist	of	orange.




  Serves	1
daiquiri




see	variations
  The	 classic	 daiquiri	 of	 rum,	 lime,	 and	 sugar	 was	 dreamed	 up	 around
  1900	 during	 a	 hot	 Cuban	 summer	 when	 Jennings	 Cox,	 an	 American
  mining	engineer	who	was	working	on	the	island,	added	fresh	lime	juice
  and	 sugar	 to	 the	 local	 rum	 because	 his	 gin	 supplies	 had	 run	 out.	 With
  important	 guests	 to	 entertain,	 he	 christened	 the	 mix	 “daiquiri”	 after	 a
  town	near	Santiago	on	Cuba’s	southeast	tip.

2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
2	tbsp.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
1	tsp.	superfine	sugar	or	sugar	syrup
Ice	cubes
Twist	of	lime	zest,	to	decorate

  Put	 the	 rum,	 lime	 juice,	 sugar	 or	 syrup,	 and	 plenty	 of	 ice	 cubes	 into	 a
  cocktail	 shaker,	 and	 shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a	 chilled	 glass	 and
  serve	decorated	with	a	twist	of	lime	zest.




  Serves	1
white	lady




see	variations
  This	 drink	 was	 first	 shaken	 and	 strained	 by	 bartender	 Harry	 McElhone
  during	his	tenure	at	Ciro’s	Club	off	London’s	Haymarket	in	1919,	one	of
  the	 favorite	 A-list	 hangouts	 of	 its	 day.	 The	 contrast	 of	 sweet	 Cointreau
  with	sharp	citrus	makes	this	the	perfect	aperitif.

Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	gin
1	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lemon	juice
1	fl.	oz.	Cointreau
Wedge	or	twist	of	lemon,	to	serve

  Put	half	a	dozen	ice	cubes	in	a	cocktail	shaker;	add	the	gin,	lemon	juice,
  and	 Cointreau;	 and	 shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 cocktail
  glass	and	serve	with	a	wedge	or	twist	of	lemon.




  Serves	1
grasshopper




see	variations
  Crème	de	Menthe	turns	this	creamy	treat	a	cool	shade	of	green,	but	it’s
  important	to	use	white	Crème	de	Cacao	as	brown	Crème	de	Cacao	will
  turn	it	into	a	dark	and	muddy	pool	—	although	the	drink	will	taste	just
  as	 good!	 A	 light	 sprinkle	 of	 grated	 chocolate	 dusted	 over	 the	 surface
  makes	a	pretty	garnish.

Ice	cubes
1	fl.	oz.	white	Crème	de	Cacao
1	fl.	oz.	green	Crème	de	Menthe
1	fl.	oz.	light	cream
Grated	chocolate,	to	decorate

  Put	half	a	dozen	ice	cubes	in	a	cocktail	shaker;	add	the	Crème	de	Cacao,
  Crème	de	Menthe,	and	cream;	and	shake	well.	Strain	into	a	well-chilled
  cocktail	glass	and	dust	the	surface	with	a	little	grated	chocolate.




  Serves	1
golden	cadillac




see	variations
  White	 Crème	 de	 Cacao	 shaken	 with	 Galliano	 and	 cream	 gives	 this
  cocktail	 a	 gorgeous	 golden	 hue.	 It	 also	 makes	 a	 slightly	 sweeter	 drink
  than	if	the	more	familiar	brown	Crème	de	Cacao	is	used.

1	fl.	oz.	white	Crème	de	Cacao
1	fl.	oz.	Galliano
1	fl.	oz.	light	cream
Ice	cubes

  Pour	 the	 Crème	 de	 Cacao,	 Galliano,	 and	 cream	 into	 a	 cocktail	 shaker;
  add	4	or	5	ice	cubes;	and	shake	well.	Strain	into	a	cocktail	glass.




  Serves	1
variations


between	the	sheets




see	base	recipe


early	night
Replace	the	white	rum	with	dark	rum	and	replace	the	lemon	twist	with	a
twist	of	orange.


under	the	covers
Replace	 the	 Cointreau	 with	 Blue	 Curacao	 and	 the	 lemon	 twist	 with	 a
maraschino	cherry.


mexican	sleepover
Replace	the	rum	with	tequila.


starry	night
Replace	the	brandy	with	plain	or	lemon	vodka.
variations


stinger




see	base	recipe


stinger	on	the	rocks
Pour	the	brandy	and	Crème	de	Menthe	mixture	together	into	a	tumbler
half-filled	with	cracked	ice	cubes.


bourbon	stinger
Replace	the	brandy	with	bourbon.	Serve	straight	up	or	on	the	rocks.


tequila	stinger
Replace	the	brandy	with	tequila.	Serve	straight	up	or	on	the	rocks.
vodka	stinger
Replace	 the	 brandy	 with	 vodka	 and	 the	 white	 Crème	 de	 Menthe	 with
green.	Serve	straight	up	or	on	the	rocks.
variations


negroni




see	base	recipe


highball	negroni
Turn	 this	 into	 a	 long	 drink	 for	 a	 hot	 summer’s	 day	 by	 pouring	 the
Campari,	vermouth,	and	gin	into	a	highball	glass	half-filled	with	ice	and
top	it	off	with	soda	water.


gin	and	it
Omit	the	Campari	and	increase	the	quantities	of	vermouth	and	gin	to	1
1/2	fl.	oz.	each.
rum	negroni
Replace	the	gin	with	white	rum.


vodka	negroni
Replace	the	gin	with	vodka	for	a	Russian-style	Negroni.
variations


cosmopolitan




see	base	recipe


south	beach	cosmopolitan
To	recreate	Cheryl	Cook’s	original	Cosmopolitan,	substitute	lemon	vodka
for	the	plain	vodka,	and	add	just	a	splash	of	Triple	Sec,	1	teaspoon	lime
cordial	(such	as	Rose’s	Lime	Juice),	and	enough	cranberry	juice	to	turn
the	drink	a	pretty	pink.


cranberry	apple	cosmo
Replace	the	lime	juice	with	apple	juice,	squeeze	in	the	juice	from	the	
small	 wedge	 of	 lime,	 and	 decorate	 the	 drink	 with	 a	 thin,	 curly	 strip	 of
green	apple	peel.
razzamattaz	cosmo
Replace	the	plain	vodka	with	raspberry	vodka.


fiery	acapulco	cosmo
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 but	 replace	 the	 vodka	 with	 tequila.	 Add	 2–3
drops	of	Tabasco	to	the	martini	glass	and	swirl	to	coat	the	sides.	Strain
in	the	drink	and	float	a	small	red	chili	in	the	drink.
variations


gimlet




see	base	recipe


gimlet	on	the	rocks
Pour	 the	 gin	 and	 lime	 cordial	 into	 a	 sours	 or	 old-fashioned	 glass	 filled
with	ice.	Stir	well	and	drop	a	wedge	of	lime	into	the	glass.	Serve	with	a
stirrer.


vodka	gimlet
Replace	the	gin	with	vodka,	and	serve	straight	up	or	over	ice.


tequila	gimlet
Replace	the	gin	with	tequila,	and	serve	straight	up	or	over	ice.


scotch	gimlet
Replace	the	gin	with	Scotch	whiskey.
variations


manhattan




see	base	recipe


dry	manhattan
Replace	 the	 whiskey	 with	 bourbon	 and	 the	 sweet	 red	 vermouth	 with
Noilly	 Prat	 Dry	 Vermouth.	 Serve	 with	 a	 twist	 of	 lemon	 instead	 of	 a
maraschino	cherry.


not-so-dry	manhattan
Make	the	Dry	Manhattan,	but	add	a	dash	of	sugar	syrup	or	1/2	teaspoon
of	syrup	from	the	maraschino	cherry	jar	to	the	mixing	glass	to	sweeten
the	mix.
sweet	manhattan
Omit	 the	 Angostura	 and	 use	 equal	 quantities	 of	 whiskey	 and	 sweet	 red
vermouth.


west	side	story
Replace	the	whiskey	with	bourbon	and	half	the	sweet	vermouth	with	dry
vermouth.	Serve	with	a	twist	of	orange	and	a	maraschino	cherry.
variations


lemon	drop




see	base	recipe


citrus	drop
Replace	the	Limoncello	with	Triple	Sec.


sweet	lemon	drop
Double	the	amount	of	vodka	and	omit	the	Limoncello.	Drop	a	sugar	cube
into	the	glass	before	pouring	in	the	drink.


melon	drop
Replace	 the	 Limoncello	 with	 Midori	 melon	 liqueur	 and	 the	 lemon	 slice
with	a	maraschino	cherry.


lemon	soda	drop
Instead	 of	 using	 a	 tall-stemmed	 glass,	 put	 the	 ingredients	 in	 a	 highball
glass	and	top	off	with	cream	soda	or	lemonade.
variations


sidecar




see	base	recipe


scotch	sidecar
Replace	 the	 brandy	 with	 Scotch	 whiskey	 and	 the	 orange	 twist	 with	 a
twist	of	lemon.


gin	sidecar
Replace	 the	 brandy	 with	 gin	 and	 the	 Cointreau	 with	 Grand	 Marnier.
Replace	the	orange	twist	with	a	halved	slice	of	orange.


vodka	orange	sidecar
Replace	the	brandy	with	lemon	vodka	and	the	lemon	juice	with	orange
juice.	Add	a	lemon	twist	to	the	orange	twist.


tequila	sidecar
Replace	the	brandy	with	tequila	and	the	orange	twist	with	a	maraschino
cherry.
variations


daiquiri




see	base	recipe


daiquiri	sunrise
Add	2	tablespoons	Grenadine	syrup	to	the	drink	and	wait	for	it	to	sink	to
the	bottom,	or	shake	the	Grenadine	with	the	other	ingredients.


minted	lychee	daiquiri
Reduce	the	quantity	of	rum	to	1	fl.	oz.,	and	add	1	fl.	oz.	lychee	liqueur.
Replace	the	twist	of	lime	zest	with	a	small	sprig	of	mint,	floated	on	top
of	the	drink.
mango	daiquiri
Follow	 the	 directions	 for	 the	 minted	 lychee	 daiquiri,	 but	 replace	 the
lychee	 liqueur	 with	 mango	 liqueur	 and	 float	 a	 wafer-thin	 slice	 of	 fresh
mango	on	top	instead	of	the	mint.


banana	daiquiri
Replace	half	the	rum	with	Crème	de	Banane,	and	decorate	the	side	of	the
glass	with	a	lime	slice	and	a	banana	slice.
variations


white	lady




see	base	recipe


blue	lady
Replace	 half	 the	 Cointreau	 with	 Blue	 Curacao.	 Serve	 with	 a	 fresh
blueberry	on	a	cocktail	stick,	instead	of	the	lemon	twist.


pink	lady
Add	 a	 splash	 of	 Grenadine	 to	 the	 shaker	 with	 the	 other	 ingredients.
Serve	 with	 a	 fresh	 raspberry	 on	 a	 cocktail	 stick	 instead	 of	 the	 lemon
twist.
shady	lady
Replace	the	gin	with	mandarin	or	pineapple	vodka.


wicked	lady
Replace	 the	 lemon	 juice	 with	 lime	 juice	 and	 add	 2	 dashes	 of	 orange
bitters.	Decorate	the	glass	with	a	lime	twist.
variations


grasshopper




see	base	recipe


leaping	grasshopper
Replace	the	light	cream	with	1	fl.	oz.	vodka.


mocha	hopper
Replace	the	Crème	de	Menthe	with	Kahlúa	or	Tia	Maria.


amarula	grasshopper
Replace	 the	 light	 cream	 with	 the	 same	 quantity	 of	 Amarula	 Cream
Liqueur,	distilled	from	South	Africa’s	lush,	sweet	Marula	fruit.
banana	hopper
Replace	the	Crème	de	Menthe	with	Crème	de	Banane.
variations


golden	cadillac




see	base	recipe


amber	cadillac
Use	brown	Crème	de	Cacao	instead	of	white,	and	decorate	glass	with	a
slice	of	golden	kiwifruit.


pink	cadillac
Add	a	splash	of	Grenadine	to	the	shaker	with	the	other	ingredients.


stretched	limo
Pour	 the	 shaken	 drink	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 half-filled	 with	 ice	 and	 top	 off
with	soda	water.


orange	cadillac
Reduce	 the	 quantity	 of	 Galliano	 to	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 and	 add	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 freshly
squeezed	orange	juice.
the	marvelous	martini



Mythical	 and	 mysterious,	 the	 Martini	 reigns	 supreme	 as	 the
world’s	 No.	 1	 cocktail.	 Straight	 up	 with	 a	 twist,	 shaken	 with
sweet	cherry	brandy,	or	so	dry	it’ll	give	the	Sahara	a	run	for	its
money,	 when	 it	 comes	 to	 the	 world’s	 favorite	 cocktail,	 there
really	is	no	contest.
  strawberry	martini
  see	variations


  A	gorgeous,	strawberry-pink	confection	that’s	sweet,	smooth,	and	fruity.
  It’s	 definitely	 one	 for	 the	 girls.	 Make	 the	 drink	 in	 summer	 when	 fresh
  strawberries	 are	 at	 their	 most	 luscious	 and	 fragrant;	 freeze	 any	 extra
  stawberry	purée	for	another	time.

3–4	strawberries,	hulled,	plus	1	extra	to	serve
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	fl.	oz.	Crème	de	Fraise	or	Crème	de	Framboise
Juice	of	1/2	lime,	plus	a	twist	to	serve
Ice	cubes

  Purée	the	strawberries	in	a	blender	or	push	them	through	a	coarse	metal
  sieve,	keeping	the	extra	one	whole	to	decorate	the	drink.	Place	1	tsp.	of
  the	 purée	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker	 and	 add	 the	 vodka,	 Crème	 de	 Fraise	 or
  Crème	 de	 Framboise,	 lime	 juice,	 and	 plenty	 of	 ice	 cubes.	 Shake	 well,
  strain	 into	 a	 cocktail	 glass,	 and	 decorate	 the	 side	 of	 the	 glass	 with	 a
  whole	strawberry	and	twist	of	lime.




  Serves	1
classic	martini




see	variations
  The	true	origins	of	the	Martini	are	as	clouded	by	myth	and	mystery	as	all
  other	legends.	Did	this	iconic	cocktail	evolve	from	an	1862	drink	called
  a	 “Martinez,”	 a	 sweet	 blend	 of	 gin,	 bitters,	 and	 red	 vermouth?	 Should
  Martini	 di	 Arma	 di	 Taggia,	 the	 barman	 at	 the	 Knickerbocker	 Hotel	 in
  New	York,	take	the	credit	with	his	1911	mix	of	gin,	white	vermouth,	and
  orange	 bitters?	 Or	 should	 we	 believe	 the	 plaque	 on	 the	 corner	 of
  Alhambra	Street	and	Masonic	Street	in	Martinez,	Californa,	claiming	the
  first	Martini	was	mixed	there?	Whatever	the	truth,	there’s	no	disputing
  the	Martini’s	enduring	popularity,	and	every	bartender	will	tell	you	his	is
  the	real	deal!

2	fl.	oz.	gin
Small	wedge	of	lemon
2	drops	of	extra-dry	white	vermouth
1	green	olive

  Thoroughly	chill	the	gin	and	a	Martini	glass,	or	place	them	in	the	freezer
  until	very	cold.	Rub	the	edge	of	the	glass	with	the	lemon	wedge.	Pour	in
  the	gin	and	add	the	vermouth.	Squeeze	the	juice	from	the	lemon	wedge
  into	 the	 glass.	 Serve	 immediately,	 decorated	 with	 a	 green	 olive	 on	 a
  cocktail	stick	while	the	drink	is	still	really	cold.




  Serves	1
midori	martini




see	variations
  Sharply	refreshing,	a	well-chilled	Martini	spiked	with	the	tang	of	citrus
  is	the	perfect	way	to	unwind	after	a	long	and	exhausting	day.	Corporate
  whiz	 kid	 or	 not,	 you’ll	 still	 feel	 like	 a	 million	 dollars	 as	 you	 raise	 the
  cool,	frosted	glass	to	your	lips.

3	fl.	oz.	lemon	vodka
1/2	fl.	oz.	Cointreau
1/2	fl.	oz.	Midori
Juice	of	1/4	lemon
Ice	cubes
Twist	of	lemon	zest,	to	serve

  Shake	 the	 vodka,	 Cointreau,	 Midori,	 and	 lemon	 juice	 together	 with
  plenty	of	ice	cubes.
  Strain	into	a	glass	and	serve	decorated	with	a	twist	of	lemon	zest.




  Serves	1
apple	martini




see	variations
  The	classic	Martini	mix	lends	itself	to	all	manner	of	exciting	variations,
  and	 shaking	 vodka	 or	 gin	 with	 fruit	 liqueurs	 and	 juices	 works
  particularly	well.	Make	sure	both	the	bottles	and	the	glass	are	very	well
  chilled	before	starting	to	make	the	drink.

1	fl.	oz.	vodka	or	gin
1	fl.	oz.	Apple	Schnapps
2	fl.	oz.	apple	juice
1	tsp.	lemon	juice
Ice	cubes
Green	apple	wedge,	to	serve

  Put	the	vodka	or	gin,	Apple	Schnapps,	apple	juice,	and	lemon	juice	in	a
  cocktail	shaker.	Add	plenty	of	ice	cubes	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into
  a	cocktail	glass	and	serve	decorated	with	a	green	apple	wedge.




  Serves	1
blue	heaven	martini




see	variations
  Dreaming	of	tropical	skies	and	deep	blue	seas?	This	classy	cocktail	will
  transport	 you	 to	 an	 exotic	 beach	 without	 the	 hassle	 of	 stepping	 on	 a
  plane.	The	drink	can	be	stirred	or	shaken	as	you	prefer.

3	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	fl.	oz.	Blue	Curacao
Ice	cubes
Maraschino	cherry,	to	serve

  Stir	 the	 vodka	 and	 Blue	 Curacao	 together	 with	 plenty	 of	 ice,	 or	 shake
  together	 with	 the	 ice	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker.	 Strain	 into	 a	 well-chilled
  cocktail	glass	and	serve	decorated	with	a	maraschino	cherry.




  Serves	1
chocolate	martini




see	variations
  When	 an	 enterprising	 bartender	 created	 this	 creamy,	 frothy	 confection,
  he	fulfilled	every	chocoholic’s	fantasy.	Use	dark	bitter	chocolate	with	at
  least	70%	cocoa	solids	for	a	seriously	indulgent	hit.

2	small	orange	wedges
A	little	finely	grated	dark	chocolate	or	equal	quantities	of	cocoa
  powder	and	confectioners’	sugar	mixed	together
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1	oz.	dark	chocolate	with	at	least	70%	cocoa	solids
1	fl.	oz.	heavy	cream
Ice	cubes

  Rub	 the	 rim	 of	 a	 well-chilled	 martini	 glass	 with	 one	 of	 the	 orange
  wedges.	 Dip	 it	 in	 the	 grated	 chocolate	 or	 cocoa	 powder	 and
  confectioners’	 sugar	 mixture.	 Chill	 the	 glass	 and	 the	 vodka	 bottle
  thoroughly.	Put	1	oz.	dark	chocolate	in	a	small	bowl	with	the	cream	and
  microwave	on	low	power	until	melted.	Stir	until	smooth.	Pour	the	vodka
  and	melted	chocolate	mix	into	a	cocktail	shaker,	add	plenty	of	ice	cubes,
  and	 shake	 well.	 Strain	 into	 the	 chocolate-rimmed	 glass	 and	 serve
  decorated	with	the	second	orange	wedge.




  Serves	1
variations


strawberry	martini




see	base	recipe


kiwi	martini
Replace	the	strawberries	with	1	teaspoon	kiwifruit	purée;	the	Crème	de
Fraise	with	kiwifruit	liqueur;	and	the	strawberry	garnish	with	a	slice	of
kiwifruit.


blueberry	martini
Place	 2	 tablespoons	 fresh	 blueberries	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker.	 Crush	 the
berries.	 Add	 1	 teaspoon	 sugar	 syrup,	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 vodka,	 and	 3/4	 fl.	 oz.
Crème	 de	 Myrtille.	 Shake	 and	 strain	 into	 a	 glass.	 Decorate	 with
blueberries	on	a	cocktail	stick.
prickly	pear	martini
Instead	 of	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 peel	 1	 prickly	 pear	 and	 push	 the	 flesh
through	
a	 coarse	 metal	 sieve,	 or	 peel,	 remove	 the	 seeds,	 and	 blend	 to	 a	 purée.
Put	1	teaspoon	of	the	purée	in	a	cocktail	shaker	with	3	fl.	oz.	tequila	and
the	juice	of	1/2	lime.	Add	plenty	of	ice	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into
a	glass.


guava	martini
Follow	 the	 directions	 for	 the	 Prickly	 Pear	 Martini,	 but	 use	 1–2	 guavas
instead	of	a	prickly	pear.


mango	martini
Follow	 the	 directions	 for	 the	 Prickly	 Pear	 Martini,	 but	 use	 1	 teaspoon
puréed	mango	instead	of	a	prickly	pear.
variations


classic	martini




see	base	recipe


mr.	bond
To	 re-create	 James	 Bond’s	 favorite	 tipple,	 replace	 half	 the	 gin	 with
vodka	and	shake	vigorously	with	the	vermouth	and	plenty	of	ice	cubes
before	 straining	 into	 the	 glass.	 Although	 shaking	 gin	 intensifies	 its
juniper-like	flavor,	it	has	no	effect	on	the	flavor	of	the	vodka.


vodkatini
Replace	 the	 gin	 with	 vodka,	 pouring	 it	 into	 a	 Martini	 glass	 before
dripping	in	the	vermouth.	Stir	and	serve	decorated	with	a	small	twist	of
lemon	zest.
gibson
Serve	the	drink	decorated	with	a	pearl	onion	instead	of	an	olive.


sake-tini
Use	gin	or	vodka	and	shake	with	1	tablespoon	of	sake	and	plenty	of	ice.
Strain	 into	 a	 Martini	 glass	 and	 decorate	 with	 a	 green	 olive	 and	 a	 thin
strip	of	cucumber	peel	threaded	onto	a	cocktail	stick.


sweet	martini
Replace	the	dry	vermouth	with	1	fl.	oz.	sweet	red	vermouth.	Shake	with
plenty	of	ice.	Strain	into	a	Martini	glass	and	decorate	with	a	maraschino
on	a	stick.
variations


midori	martini




see	base	recipe


martini	gold
Replace	the	vodka	with	tequila,	the	Midori	with	Grand	Marnier,	and	the
lemon	 juice	 with	 orange	 juice.	 Shake	 with	 the	 Cointreau	 and	 ice	 and
strain	into	a	glass.


st.	clements	martini
Replace	the	lemon	vodka	with	orange	vodka,	Midori	with	orange	bitters,
and	 lemon	 juice	 with	 an	 orange	 wedge.	 Decorate	 with	 an	 orange	 zest
twist.
grapefruit	martini
Replace	 the	 lemon	 vodka	 with	 grapefruit	 vodka,	 the	 Cointreau	 and
Midori	 with	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 dry	 white	 vermouth,	 and	 the	 lemon	 juice	 with	 2
tablespoons	 grapefruit	 juice.	 Decorate	 with	 a	 grapefruit	 zest	 instead	 of
lemon	zest.


dry	orange	martini
Instead	 of	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 shake	 3	 fl.	 oz.	 bourbon,	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 Orange
Curacao,	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 orange	 juice,	 and	 1	 tablespoon	 lemon	 juice	 with	 ice
and	 strain	 into	 a	 glass.	 Decorate	 with	 a	 twist	 of	 orange	 zest	 instead	 of
lemon	zest.


mandarin	martini
Instead	 of	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 shake	 3	 fl.	 oz.	 gin,	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 Triple	 Sec	 or
Cointreau,	and	the	juice	of	1/2	a	mandarin	orange	with	plenty	of	ice	and
strain	into	a	glass.	Decorate	with	a	thin	slice	of	mandarin	orange.
variations


apple	martini




see	base	recipe


peach	martini
Increase	 the	 vodka	 to	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 Replace	 the	 Apple	 Schnapps	 with	 Peach
Schnapps	and	the	apple	juice	with	1/2	fl.	oz.	of	peach	nectar.	Decorate
with	a	peach	wedge	instead	of	the	apple	wedge.


cherry	martini
Shake	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 gin	 with	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 dry	 white	 vermouth,	 a	 couple	 of
dashes	of	cherry	brandy,	2	drops	of	Angostura,	and	plenty	of	ice.
apricot	martini
Replace	 the	 Apple	 Schnapps	 with	 apricot	 brandy	 and	 the	 apple	 juice
with	 orange	 juice.	 Decorate	 with	 a	 twist	 of	 orange	 and	 a	 slice	 of	 fresh
apricot.


melon	martini
Replace	the	Apple	Schnapps	with	melon	liquer,	and	replace	the	teaspoon
of	lemon	juice	with	the	juice	of	half	a	lime.	Decorate	with	a	small	ball	or
a	cube	of	melon	on	a	stick.


cosmo	martini
Replace	the	Apple	Schnapps	with	Cointreau	or	Triple	Sec;	the	apple	juice
with	cranberry	juice;	and	the	teaspoon	of	lemon	juice	with	the	juice	of
half	a	lime.	Decorate	with	a	spiral	of	lime	zest.
variations


blue	heaven	martini




see	base	recipe


blue	dawn	martini
Pour	 the	 vodka	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 glass	 followed	 by	 the	 Blue	 Curacao.
Let	 it	 stand	 until	 the	 Blue	 Curacao	 sinks	 to	 the	 bottom.	 Put	 the
maraschino	cherry	on	a	cocktail	stick	to	use	as	a	stirrer	before	drinking.


blue	sapphire	martini
Replace	the	vodka	with	gin.	Decorate	with	a	twist	of	lemon	zest	instead
of	a	cherry.
tequila	blue	martini
Replace	the	vodka	with	tequila.	Decorate	with	a	lime	wedge	instead	of	
a	cherry.


chili	blue	martini
Stir	or	shake	2	drops	of	Tabasco	with	the	vodka	and	Blue	Curacao.	Float
a	small	red	chili	in	the	glass,	and	omit	the	lime.


deep	blue	martini
Add	 a	 dash	 of	 Grenadine	 to	 the	 mix.	 Put	 the	 maraschino	 cherry	 and	 a
blueberry	on	a	cocktail	stick.
variations


chocolate	martini




see	base	recipe


white	chocolate	martini
Coat	the	rim	of	the	glass	with	grated	white	chocolate,	rather	than	dark
or	 superfine	 sugar.	 Replace	 the	 1	 oz.	 dark	 chocolate	 with	 white
chocolate.


chocolate	orange	martini
Replace	the	dark	chocolate	with	orange-flavored	dark	chocolate,	and	add
1/2	fl.	oz.	Grand	Marnier	to	the	cocktail	shaker.
mint	chocolate	martini
Follow	the	instructions	for	the	White	Chocolate	Martini	but	add	1/2	fl.
oz.	Crème	de	Menthe	liqueur	to	the	cocktail	shaker.	Decorate	
with	a	short	chocolate-covered	peppermint	stick.


chocca-mocca	martini
Instead	of	preparing	the	basic	recipe,	shake	1	fl.	oz.	cold	espresso	coffee,	
2	fl.	oz.	vodka,	1	fl.	oz.	Kahlúa,	and	1	fl.	oz.	white	or	brown	Crème	de
Cacao	with	plenty	of	ice.	Strain	into	a	glass	that	has	been	rimmed	with
chocolate.


chocolate	banana	martini
Instead	of	preparing	the	basic	recipe,	shake	together	2	fl.	oz.	vodka	with
1	 fl.	 oz.	 Crème	 de	 Banane	 and	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 white	 Crème	 de	 Cacao	 with
plenty	of	ice.	Strain	into	a	cocktail	glass.	Decorate	the	side	of	the	glass
with	a	slice	of	banana.
sparkle	&	fizz



Nothing	 puts	 you	 in	 the	 party	 mood	 quite	 like	 a	 glass	 of
bubbly,	and	this	mix	of	sparklers	make	the	ultimate	good-time
drinks.	 If	 you	 can’t	 afford	 the	 best	 Dom	 Perignon,	 don’t	 fret;
they	 all	 taste	 just	 as	 good	 topped	 off	 with	 your	 favorite
sparkling	wine.
  mimosa
  see	variations


  Champagne	hasn’t	earned	its	nickname	“giggle	wine”	for	nothing,	as	no
  other	 drink	 can	 match	 it	 for	 making	 a	 party	 go	 with	 a	 swing.	 If	 the
  genuine	article	is	beyond	your	budget,	substitute	a	good	sparkling	wine
  such	as	Cava.

1	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
2	tsp.	Orange	Curacao	or	Grand	Marnier
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	champagne

  Pour	 the	 orange	 juice	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 champagne	 flute	 to	 fill	 it	 by
  about	 one-quarter.	 Add	 the	 Orange	 Curacao	 or	 Grand	 Marnier	 and	 top
  off	with	champagne.	Stir	and	serve	immediately.




  Serves	1
champagne	cocktail




see	variations
  This	is	one	of	the	easiest	cocktails	to	mix,	because	it	requires	no	special
  skills	or	equipment	—	beyond	a	steady	hand!	A	drink	similar	to	today’s
  champagne	cocktail	first	appeared	in	1862	in	Jerry	Thomas’s	How	to	Mix
  Drinks	 cocktail	 book;	 but	 it	 didn’t	 catch	 on	 until	 1899,	 when	 John
  Dougherty	 submitted	 a	 version	 of	 the	 cocktail	 to	 a	 New	 York
  competition.	To	re-create	John	Dougherty’s	original	drink,	rub	the	sugar
  cube	 over	 the	 zest	 of	 an	 orange	 before	 adding	 it	 to	 the	 glass.	 When
  pouring	 the	 champagne,	 reduce	 its	 froth	 by	 holding	 the	 glass	 at	 a	 45-
  degree	angle.

1	sugar	cube
2	dashes	of	Angostura	bitters
3/4	fl.	oz.	brandy
6	fl.	oz.	champagne
Slice	of	orange	and	maraschino	cherry,	to	serve

  Put	the	sugar	cube	in	a	well-chilled	champagne	flute,	add	the	Angostura,
  and	let	it	soak	for	a	few	minutes.	Pour	in	the	brandy	and	top	off	with	the
  champagne.	Decorate	the	glass	with	a	slice	of	orange	and	a	maraschino
  cherry.




  Serves	1
wild	hibiscus	royale




see	variations
  Australian	wild	hibiscus	flowers	preserved	in	syrup	make	an	unusual	and
  eye-catching	 addition	 to	 a	 celebration	 drink.	 If	 the	 petals	 stubbornly
  remain	closed,	push	a	maraschino	cherry	into	the	center	of	the	flower	to
  encourage	them	to	open	and	to	hold	them	in	place.	Jars	of	the	flowers
  can	be	bought	from	gourmet	shops	or	the	Internet.

1	wild	hibiscus	flower
1/2	tsp.	rose	water
1/4	pt.	champagne
1	tbsp.	hibiscus	syrup	from	the	jar

  Carefully	 place	 the	 hibiscus	 flower	 at	 the	 bottom	 of	 a	 well-chilled
  champagne	flute,	making	sure	it	stands	upright.	Add	the	rose	water,	top
  off	with	the	champagne,	and	finally	drizzle	in	the	syrup.




  Serves	1
framboise	kir	royale




see	variations
  Perfect	 for	 an	 alfresco	 summer	 party	 when	 soft	 fruits	 are	 at	 their
  sweetest	and	most	fragrant.	Because	raspberries	freeze	well,	this	warm-
  weather	sparkler	can	be	enjoyed	
  all	year.

1	fl.	oz.	Crème	de	Framboise
4	1/2	fl.	oz.	well-chilled	champagne
Fresh	raspberries,	to	serve

  Pour	the	Crème	de	Framboise	into	a	frosted	champagne	flute	and	top	off
  with	 well-chilled	 champagne.	 Float	 a	 few	 raspberries	 in	 the	 drink	 and
  serve	at	once.




  Serves	1
  gin	rickey
  see	variations


  Believed	to	have	been	created	in	the	late	nineteenth	century	for	political
  lobbyist	 Joe	 Rickey,	 who	 was	 a	 regular	 at	 Shoemaker’s	 Restaurant	 in
  Washington	DC.	The	original	Rickey	mix	contained	no	sugar	—	just	lime
  juice,	gin,	and	a	squirt	of	soda	—	but	a	little	Grenadine	takes	the	sharp
  edge	off	the	drink,	and	gives	it	a	pretty	pink	hue.

2	fl.	oz.	gin
1	tsp.	Grenadine	syrup
Juice	of	1/2	lime	or	1/2	small	lemon
Soda	water
Lime	and/or	lemon	slices,	to	serve

  Half-fill	 a	 tall	 glass	 with	 ice.	 Mix	 the	 gin	 and	 Grenadine	 together	 and
  pour	 over	 the	 ice.	 Add	 the	 lime	 or	 lemon	 juice	 and	 top	 off	 with	 soda
  water.	Decorate	the	glass	with	lime	and/or	lemon	slices.




  Serves	1
  royale	blue
  see	variations


  Another	 cool	 sparkler	 that	 makes	 the	 most	 of	 Blue	 Curacao’s	 dazzling
  hue.	 A	 kiwifruit	 makes	 a	 spectacular	 decoration,	 but	 if	 it’s	 unavailable,
  tuck	a	string	of	red	currants,	black	currants,	or	white	currants	over	the
  side	of	the	glass	instead.

1	fl.	oz.	Blue	Curacao
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	champagne,	well	chilled
Slice	of	kiwifruit

  Pour	 the	 Blue	 Curacao	 into	 a	 frosted	 champagne	 flute	 and	 top	 off	 with
  the	well-chilled	champagne.	Decorate	the	side	of	the	glass	with	a	slice	of
  kiwifruit.




  Serves	1
black	velvet




see	variations
  Champagne	 was	 a	 popular	 celebration	 drink	 in	 upper-class	 Victorian
  England,	 but	 in	 1861	 the	 sudden	 death	 of	 the	 Queen’s	 Consort,	 Prince
  Albert,	plunged	the	whole	country	into	mourning.	Still	wanting	to	serve
  champagne	 but	 feeling	 it	 should	 be	 in	 mourning	 too,	 the	 bartender	 at
  Brooks’s	Club	in	London	combined	it	with	Guinness	as	a	suitably	somber
  way	 to	 mark	 the	 occasion.	 He	 dubbed	 the	 cocktail	 Black	 Velvet	 and
  served	 it	 in	 a	 beer	 tankard,	 but	 today	 a	 goblet	 or	 champagne	 flute	 is
  normally	used.	The	drink	became	a	favorite	of	Prince	Otto	von	Bismarck,
  and	in	Germany	it	is	known	by	his	name.

3	fl.	oz.	Guinness,	well	chilled
3	fl.	oz.	champagne,	well	chilled

  Both	the	Guinness	and	champagne	must	be	chilled	thoroughly.	Pour	the
  Guinness	 into	 a	 goblet	 or	 champagne	 flute	 and	 then	 carefully	 add	 the
  champagne,	pouring	it	over	the	back	of	a	spoon	so	it	floats	on	top	of	the
  Guinness.	Serve	with	a	stirrer	or	drink	with	the	layers	still	separate.




  Serves	1
bellini




see	variations
  An	exhibition	during	the	1940s	of	paintings	by	the	Venetian	artist	Bellini
  prompted	Giuseppi	Cipriani,	the	bartender	of	the	legendary	Harry’s	Bar
  in	 Venice,	 to	 mark	 the	 occasion	 with	 this	 champagne	 and	 peach	 juice
  cocktail.	 A	 true	 Bellini	 is	 made	 with	 fresh	 white	 peaches,	 but	 because
  their	season	is	short,	most	amateur	bartenders	resort	to	using	the	more
  readily	 available	 yellow-fleshed	 fruit	 —	 unless,	 of	 course,	 they’ve
  stocked	their	freezer	with	enough	white	peach	juice	to	see	them	through
  the	 year.	 Prosecco,	 the	 Italian	 sparkling	 wine,	 is	 used	 in	 this	 recipe
  instead	of	the	original	champagne.

1	fresh	white	peach
Juice	of	1/4	lemon
1	tbsp.	orange	juice
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	Prosecco

  Put	the	peach	in	a	bowl	and	cover	it	with	boiling	water.	Leave	for	1–2
  minutes,	then	drain	and	cool	under	cold	water.	Nick	the	skin	in	several
  places	 with	 the	 point	 of	 a	 sharp	 knife,	 and	 remove	 the	 skin	 with	 your
  fingers.	Cut	the	peach	in	half	and	remove	the	pit.	Chop	the	flesh;	place	it
  in	 a	 blender	 with	 the	 lemon	 juice	 and	 orange	 juice;	 and	 blend	 until
  smooth.	 Fill	 a	 well-chilled	 champagne	 flute	 one-quarter	 full	 with	 the
  peach	 juice	 (freeze	 the	 rest	 for	 another	 occasion)	 and	 top	 off	 with
  Prosecco.




  Serves	1
  passion	fruit	bellini
  see	variations


  Not	only	does	this	cocktail	look	beautiful,	but	its	intoxicating	flavor	and
  aroma	will	instantly	transport	you	to	a	world	of	white	coral	beaches	and
  warm	blue	seas.	Prosecco	can	be	used	instead	of	champagne,	if	you	wish.

2	passion	fruit
2	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
5	fl.	oz.	champagne

  Halve	 the	 passion	 fruit	 and	 scoop	 out	 the	 seeds	 and	 pulp	 into	 a	 small
  bowl	or	pan.	Add	the	orange	juice	and	heat	gently	in	the	microwave	or
  on	 a	 low	 burner	 until	 the	 passion	 fruit	 seeds	 separate	 from	 the	 pulp.
  Strain	 and	 cool.	 Put	 enough	 of	 the	 passion	 fruit	 mix	 into	 a	 well-chilled
  champagne	flute	to	fill	by	one-quarter	and	top	off	with	champagne.




  Serves	1
variations


mimosa




see	base	recipe


mimosa	blush
Use	blush-or	blood-orange	juice	in	place	of	ordinary	orange	juice.


mango	mimosa
Replace	the	orange	juice	with	mango	nectar	and	drop	a	fresh	raspberry
in	the	drink.


lychee	mimosa
Replace	the	Orange	Curacao	with	Lychee	Liqueur.
lemon	mimosa
Replace	the	Orange	Curacao	with	Limoncello.
variations


champagne	cocktail




see	base	recipe


red	devil	champagne	cocktail
Omit	the	sugar	cube	and	bitters.	Replace	the	brandy	with	cherry	brandy
and	 add	 the	 same	 quantity	 of	 cranberry	 juice,	 before	 topping	 off	 with
champagne.


amaretto	champagne	cocktail
Omit	 the	 sugar	 cube	 and	 bitters.	 Replace	 the	 brandy	 with	 2	 teaspoons
Amaretto	 Disaronno	 and	 2	 teaspoons	 Cointreau	 and	 a	 squeeze	 of	 lime
juice,	 before	 topping	 off	 with	 champagne	 just	 peachy	 champagne
cocktail
Replace	 the	 brandy	 with	 bourbon.	 Add	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 peach	 liqueur	 to	 the
mix	before	topping	off	with	champagne.


apricot	champagne	cocktail
Replace	the	brandy	with	apricot	brandy.
variations


wild	hibiscus	royale




see	base	recipe


rose	petal	royale
Omit	 the	 hibiscus	 flower	 and	 syrup.	 Pour	 the	 rose	 water	 (or	 replace	 it
with	 a	 dash	 of	 Grenadine)	 in	 a	 well-chilled	 flute	 and	 top	 off	 with
champagne.	Float	a	couple	of	washed	pink	rose	petals	on	top.


borage	blossom	royale
Omit	the	hibiscus	flower,	syrup,	and	rose	water.	Add	a	dash	of	Crème	de
Cassis	 to	 a	 well-chilled	 flute	 and	 top	 off	 with	 champagne.	 Float	 2	 or	 3
blue	borage	flowers	on	top.
violette	royale
Omit	the	hibiscus	flower,	syrup,	and	rose	water.	Pour	champagne	into	a
well-chilled	 flute	 and	 dribble	 in	 Crème	 de	 Violette	 liqueur.	 Decorate
with	a	violet	floated	on	top.


lavender	royale
Omit	the	hibiscus	flower,	syrup,	and	rose	water.	Add	a	dash	of	lavender
liqueur	 or	 cordial	 to	 a	 well-chilled	 flute	 and	 top	 off	 with	 champagne.
Decorate	with	a	short	sprig	of	lavender	flowers	balanced	across	the	top
of	the	glass.
variations


framboise	kir	royale




see	base	recipe


dry	orange	royale
Replace	the	Crème	de	Framboise	with	Orange	Curacao.	Float	a	thin	strip
of	orange	zest	tied	in	a	knot	in	the	glass.


wild	strawberry	liqueur
Replace	 the	 Crème	 de	 Framboise	 with	 Crème	 de	 Fraise	 des	 Bois	 (wild
strawberry	liqueur)	or	Crème	de	Fraise.	Float	a	few	wild	strawberries	or
a	thin	strawberry	slice	in	the	drink.
cassis	royale
Replace	the	Crème	de	Framboise	with	Crème	de	Cassis,	and	hook	a	small
bunch	of	black	currants	over	the	side	of	the	glass.


cherry	ripe	royale
Replace	the	Crème	de	Framboise	with	cherry	brandy	or	Crème	de	Cerise.
Hook	2	cherries	joined	at	the	stalk	over	the	side	of	the	glass.
variations


gin	rickey




see	base	recipe


rickey	fizz
Shake	the	gin	with	the	lemon	juice	and	1	teaspoon	sugar	syrup.	Omit	the
Grenadine.	Pour	over	ice	in	a	tall	glass,	top	off	with	soda	water,	and	add
a	little	extra	lemon	juice	for	a	sharper,	citrusy	taste.	Serve	with	a	straw.


silver	rickey	fizz
Follow	the	directions	for	the	Rickey	Fizz,	but	add	a	little	lightly	whisked
egg	white	to	the	shaker	to	give	the	finished	drink	a	frothier	head.
vodka	rickey
Substitute	vodka	for	the	gin	and	the	juice	from	one-quarter	orange	in	for
the	lime	or	lemon	juice.	Decorate	the	glass	with	an	orange	slice	instead
of	the	lime	of	lemon	slices.


tequila	rickey
Substitute	tequila	for	the	gin.	Use	lime	juice	and	a	lime	wedge	instead	of
lemon	juice	and	a	lemon	slice.
variations


royale	blue




see	base	recipe


sparkling	apple	blue
Replace	the	champagne	with	sparkling	apple	juice	or	cider.


blue	spritz
Replace	the	champagne	with	2	fl.	oz.	dry	white	wine	and	2.	fl.	oz.	
soda	water.


purple	patch
For	 a	 dense	 purple	 sparkler,	 replace	 the	 champagne	 with	 Sparkling
Shiraz	
red	wine.


elderflower	blue
Instead	of	champagne,	use	1	tablespoon	elderflower	cordial	and	top	off
the	glass	with	sparkling	white	wine	or	soda	water.
variations


black	velvet




see	base	recipe


somerset	velvet
Substitute	cider	for	the	champagne,	but	add	it	first,	with	the	Guinness	as
the	top	layer.


lemon	velvet
Substitute	lemonade	for	the	champagne.


top	hat
Substitute	ginger	beer	for	the	champagne	(or	ginger	ale).
royal	purple	velvet
Pour	 2	 teaspoons	 black	 currant	 cordial	 into	 a	 champagne	 flute	 before
adding	the	Guinness	followed	by	the	champagne.
variations


bellini




see	base	recipe


apricot	bellini
Replace	the	peach	with	2	ripe	apricots.


strawberry	bellini
Replace	the	peach	with	4	large,	ripe	strawberries.


blackbery	bellini
Instead	of	preparing	the	basic	recipe,	put	3	or	4	frozen	blackberries	in	a
champagne	 flute	 and	 add	 2	 teaspoons	 Créme	 de	 Mure.	 Top	 off	 with
Prosecco.


raspberry	bellini
Instead	of	preparing	the	basic	recipe,	put	3	or	4	frozen	raspberries	in	a
champagne	flute	and	add	2	teaspoons	Crème	de	Framboise.	Top	off	with
Prosecco.
variations


passion	fruit	bellini




see	base	recipe


kiwi	bellini
Blend	 1	 peeled	 kiwifruit	 with	 the	 orange	 juice	 and	 pour	 enough	 into	 a
well-chilled	 champagne	 flute	 to	 fill	 by	 one	 quarter.	 Top	 off	 with
champagne.


lychee	bellini
Blend	 4	 peeled	 and	 pitted	 fresh	 lychees	 (or	 4	 canned	 lychees,	 drained)
with	 the	 orange	 juice	 and	 pour	 enough	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 champagne
flute	to	fill	by	one	quarter.	Top	off	with	champagne.
mango	bellini
Blend	1/2	ripe	mango	with	2	fl.	oz.	mango	nectar	and	pour	enough	into
a	 well-chilled	 champagne	 flute	 to	 fill	 by	 one	 quarter.	 Top	 off	 with
champagne.


papaya	bellini
Blend	1/2	ripe,	deseeded	papaya	with	the	orange	juice	and	pour	enough
into	 a	 well-chilled	 champagne	 flute	 to	 fill	 by	 one	 quarter.	 Top	 off	 with
champagne.
shots,	shooters	&	sours



When	Frank	Sinatra	crooned	“set	’em	up	Joe,”	if	the	bartender
had	 mixed	 him	 one	 of	 these	 cocktails,	 Ol’	 Blue	 Eyes	 would
instantly	 have	 cheered	 up.	 Cocktails	 don’t	 come	 more	 stylish
than	 a	 Black	 Russian;	 Caipirinha	 and	 Pisco	 Sour	 evoke
Carnival’s	exhilaration;	and	the	B-52	is	always	a	bombshell.
  pisco	sour
  see	variations


  The	 national	 drink	 of	 Peru	 and	 Chile,	 Pisco	 is	 a	 brandy	 distilled	 from
  locally	 grown	 grapes.	 It	 is	 traditionally	 shaken	 with	 sugar	 syrup,	 lime
  juice,	 egg	 white,	 and	 Angostura	 to	 make	 a	 Pisco	 Sour.	 In	 Chilean	 bars,
  regulars	 often	 drink	 Pisco	 neat	 poured	 over	 ice,	 something	 the	 average
  tourist	would	be	wise	to	avoid!

2	fl.	oz.	Pisco
1	tbsp.	sugar	syrup
2	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
About	1	tsp.	egg	white
Dash	of	Angostura	bitters
Ice	cubes
Pinch	of	freshly	grated	nutmeg


  Put	the	Pisco,	sugar	syrup,	lime	juice,	egg	white,	Angostura,	and	half	a
  dozen	 ice	 cubes	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker;	 shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a
  cocktail	glass,	and	serve	with	a	pinch	of	freshly	grated	nutmeg	sprinkled
  on	top.




  Serves	1
caipirinha




see	variations
Peru	and	Chile	might	have	Pisco,	but	Brazil	can	claim	an	equally	potent
  liquor	as	its	national	drink	—	Cachaca	(pronounced	kah-sha-sah),	a	rum-
  like	white	spirit	distilled	from	pressed	sugarcane.	On	hot	sunny	days	the
  beautiful	 and	 tanned	 people	 packing	 Copacabana	 beach	 keep	 cool
  sipping	this	refreshing	citrus	cocktail.	The	lime	is	always	muddled	with
  the	sugar,	never	squeezed	straight	into	the	glass.

1	lime
2	tsp.	superfine	or	demerara	sugar
Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	Cachaca


  Cut	the	lime	into	small	pieces	and	place	in	a	tumbler.	Add	the	sugar	and,
  with	 a	 muddler,	 crush	 the	 lime	 to	 release	 its	 aroma	 and	 juice	 and
  dissolve	the	sugar.	Fill	the	glass	with	ice	cubes	and	pour	in	the	Cachaca.
  Serve	with	a	stirrer.




  Serves	1
rum	sour




see	variations
The	 lush	 Caribbean	 island	 of	 Jamaica	 is	 famous	 for	 its	 rum,	 and	 most
  visitors	 are	 more	 than	 happy	 to	 drink	 this	 liquid	 gold.	 Spiked	 with
  freshly	 squeezed	 lemon	 juice	 and	 poured	 over	 plenty	 of	 ice,	 this	 tangy
  drink	makes	an	easy	and	very	refreshing	sundowner.

1	1/2	fl.	oz.	light	Jamaican	rum
3/4	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
1	tsp.	superfine	sugar	or	sugar	syrup
Ice	cubes
Slice	of	lime	and	maraschino	cherries,
to	decorate


  Put	 the	 rum,	 lime	 juice,	 sugar	 or	 syrup,	 and	 ice	 cubes	 in	 a	 cocktail
  shaker.	 Shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a	 short	 glass	 and	 decorate	 with	 a
  lime	slice	and	maraschino	cherries.




  Serves	1
black	russian




see	variations
At	 the	 height	 of	 the	 Cold	 War	 in	 1949,	 Gustave	 Tops,	 the	 bartender	 at
  the	Hotel	Metropole	in	Brussels,	created	this	blend	of	vodka	and	coffee
  liqueur	 for	 one	 of	 his	 favorite	 clients,	 Perle	 Mesta.	 The	 lively	 socialite
  was	America’s	lady	ambassador	to	Luxembourg	at	the	time.

Ice	cubes
2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1	fl.	oz.	Kahlúa	or	Tia	Maria


  Put	4	or	5	ice	cubes	in	a	short	glass	or	low	tumbler	or	use	a	couple	of
  tablespoons	 of	 crushed	 ice.	 Add	 the	 vodka,	 followed	 by	 the	 Kahlúa	 or
  Tia	Maria,	and	stir	well.	Serve	with	a	stirrer.




  Serves	1
whiskey	sour




see	variations
  Sours	 —	 cocktails	 sharpened	 with	 a	 good	 shot	 of	 citrus	 juice	 —	 date
  from	 1850s	 America,	 when	 they	 were	 made	 with	 brandy.	 Today,
  whiskey,	 usually	 bourbon	 or	 Irish	 whiskey	 rather	 than	 Scotch,	 is	 more
  popular,	 but	 any	 spirit	 can	 be	 used.	 It’s	 important	 to	 use	 freshly
  squeezed	lemon	juice	to	achieve	the	necessary	“sour”	flavor.

2	fl.	oz.	bourbon
Juice	of	1/2	lemon
1	tsp.	sugar	syrup
Ice	cubes
Lemon	and	lime	zest,	to	serve


  Put	the	bourbon,	lemon	juice,	and	sugar	syrup	in	a	cocktail	shaker;	add
  half	a	dozen	ice	cubes;	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	cocktail	glass,
  and	serve	decorated	with	strips	of	lemon	and	lime	zest.




  Serves	1
lime	shooter




see	variations
  If	 you	 prefer	 a	 long	 drink	 that	 you	 can	 sip	 and	 savor,	 shooters	 are
  definitely	not	for	you!	As	their	name	suggests,	these	cocktails	are	served
  in	 small,	 straight	 glasses	 that	 have	 a	 capacity	 of	 little	 more	 than	 a
  mouthful.	If	you’re	with	a	group	of	friends,	line	up	the	shooters	on	the
  bar,	toast	each	other	in	unison,	and	toss	the	contents	of	the	glass	down
  in	one.

1	fl.	oz.	white	rum
Juice	of	1	lime
1	tbsp.	orange	juice
1	tbsp.	light	cream
Ice	cubes
Lime	wedge,	to	serve


  Put	 the	 rum,	 lime	 juice,	 orange	 juice,	 and	 cream	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker;
  add	half	a	dozen	ice	cubes;	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	shot	glass
  and	decorate	with	a	lime	wedge	on	top.	Before	tossing	down	the	drink,
  remove	the	lime	wedge	and	squeeze	it	into	the	glass.




  Serves	1
b-52




see	variations
Layered	drinks	are	guaranteed	to	elicit	gasps	of	admiration	and	a	round
  of	applause	from	your	guests,	and	the	B-52,	named	after	the	long-range
  bomber	 aircraft	 used	 in	 the	 Vietnam	 War,	 is	 one	 of	 the	 most	 popular.
  Various	 establishments	 lay	 claim	 to	 its	 invention;	 these	 include	 the
  famous	 Alice’s	 Restaurant	 on	 Malibu	 pier	 in	 California,	 unintentionally
  immortalized	by	Arlo	Guthrie	in	his	’60s	hit	single	about	his	friend	Alice.

1/2	fl.	oz.	Kahlúa
1/2	fl.	oz.	Bailey’s	Irish	Cream	liqueur
1/2	fl.	oz.	Grand	Marnier


  Pour	the	Kahlúa	into	a	small	well-chilled	glass	such	as	a	sherry	or	shot
  glass.	Gently	drizzle	the	Bailey’s	on	top	of	the	Kahlúa	over	the	back	of	a
  spoon,	followed	by	the	Grand	Marnier,	again	pouring	it	gently	over	the
  spoon.	 Leave	 for	 a	 short	 while	 to	 give	 the	 layers	 time	 to	 settle.	 Serve
  with	a	stirrer	or	sip	the	drink	so	you	can	enjoy	each	layer.




  Serves	1
americano




see	variations
  The	 Americano	 was	 created	 in	 the	 1860s	 by	 Gaspare	 Campari	 at	 his
  Campari	Bar.	Later	it	became	the	inspiration	for	another	classic	cocktail,
  the	 Negroni,	 where	 gin	 was	 added	 to	 the	 original	 mix.	 Gaspare
  christened	his	creation	a	Milano-Torino	—	Milan	being	home	to	Campari
  and	 Turin	 where	 Cinzano	 produced	 its	 sweet	 red	 vermouth.	 During	 the
  years	 of	 Prohibition,	 the	 number	 of	 Americans	 visiting	 the	 bar	 soared
  and	 the	 cocktail	 was	 subsequently	 renamed	 the	 Americano	 in	 their
  honor.

1	fl.	oz.	Campari
1	fl.	oz.	sweet	red	vermouth
Ice	cubes
Splash	of	soda	water
Twists	of	orange	and	lemon,	to	serve


  Pour	 the	 Campari	 followed	 by	 the	 vermouth	 into	 a	 tumbler	 glass	 half-
  filled	with	ice	cubes.	Add	a	dash	of	soda	water.	Decorate	with	twists	of
  orange	and	lemon.




  Serves	1
variations


pisco	sour




see	base	recipe


pisco	not-so-sour
Substitute	freshly	squeezed	orange	or	mandarin	orange	juice	for	the	
lime	juice.


in	the	pink	pisco
Substitute	Grenadine	for	the	sugar	syrup.


pisco	fizz
Strain	the	drink	into	a	highball	glass	and	top	off	with	soda	water.
piscola
Pour	the	amount	of	Pisco	into	a	tumbler	half-filled	with	ice,	and	top	off
with	cola.	Add	a	twist	of	lemon	and	serve	with	a	straw.


ginger	pisco
Pour	the	amount	of	Pisco	into	a	tumbler	half-filled	with	ice,	and	top	off
with	ginger	ale.	Add	a	twist	of	lime	and	serve	with	a	straw.
variations


caipirinha




see	base	recipe


orange	caipirinha
Substitute	 one	 quarter	 of	 a	 thin-skinned	 orange	 or	 half	 a	 mandarin
orange	for	the	lime.


mango	caipirinha
Substitute	the	chopped	flesh	of	half	a	ripe,	fragrant	mango	for	the	lime.


pineapple	caipirinha
Substitute	 a	 small	 wedge	 of	 pineapple	 (peeled,	 chopped,	 and	 any	 hard
core	cut	away)	for	the	lime.


caipirodka
The	 drink	 can	 be	 also	 made	 with	 vodka	 instead	 of	 Cachaca.	 Instead	 of
lime,	muddle	half	a	fresh	peach	with	the	sugar.


caipirquila
Replace	 the	 Cachaca	 with	 tequila	 and	 the	 lime	 with	 2	 passion	 fruit.
Muddle	the	pulp	of	the	passion	fruit	with	half	the	quantity	of	sugar.	The
seeds	can	be	left	in	or	removed	from	the	pulp	as	preferred.	To	separate
the	pulp	from	the	seeds,	warm	it	first	so	the	seeds	come	away	easily.
variations


rum	sour




see	base	recipe


lemon	rum	sour
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 but	 replace	 the	 lime	 juice	 with	 the	 freshly
squeezed	 juice	 of	 half	 a	 lemon.	 Instead	 of	 decorating	 with	 lemon	 and
lime	 zest,	 serve	 with	 a	 wedge	 of	 orange	 and	 squeeze	 it	 into	 the	 glass
before	drinking.


amaretto	rum	sour
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	but	use	3/4	fl.	oz.	of	rum	and	the	same	amount
amaretto	liqueur.	Add	a	few	drops	of	Angostura	bitters	to	the	mix.
rum	sour	float
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	but	stir	the	lime	juice	and	sugar	together	until
the	 sugar	 dissolves.	 Pour	 into	 a	 tumbler	 three-quarters	 filled	 with	 ice
cubes	and	float	the	rum	on	top.	Stir	before	drinking.


rum	apple	sour
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	but	use	equal	quantities	of	rum	and	Sour	Apple
liqueur	and	add	2	teaspoons	Triple	Sec	or	Orange	Curacao.	Drop	slices	of
apple	and	orange	into	the	glass	and	omit	the	lemon	and	lime	zest.


rum	apricot	sour
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	but	replace	half	the	rum	with	apricot	brandy.
variations


black	russian




see	base	recipe


white	russian
Float	1	fl.	oz.	lightly	whipped	heavy	cream	or	thick	coconut	milk	on	top
of	the	finished	drink.


tall	black	russian
Pour	the	vodka	and	Kahlúa	or	Tia	Maria	over	ice	in	a	highball	glass,	and
top	off	with	cola.


black	russian	of	irish	extraction
Pour	the	vodka	and	Kahlúa	or	Tia	Maria	over	ice	in	a	highball	glass,	and
add	a	head	of	Guinness.


voodoo	brew
Substitute	white	rum	for	the	vodka.


mexican	brew
Substitute	tequila	for	the	vodka.
variations


whiskey	sour




see	base	recipe


sour	whiskey	frizz
Add	 half	 a	 lightly	 beaten	 egg	 white	 to	 the	 shaker	 to	 give	 the	 finished
drink	a	frothy	head.


brandy	sour
Substitute	 brandy	 for	 the	 bourbon	 and	 a	 maraschino	 cherry	 and	 an
orange	slice	for	the	lemon	and	lime	zest.


whiskey	cola	sour
Strain	the	drink	into	a	highball	glass	and	top	off	with	cola.


whiskey	ginger	sour
Strain	the	drink	into	a	highball	glass	and	top	off	with	ginger	ale.


berry	sour
Replace	 the	 bourbon	 with	 plain	 vodka	 and	 shake	 with	 the	 other
ingredients,	 adding	 a	 dash	 of	 Crème	 de	 Cassis.	 Strain	 into	 a	 highball
glass	and	top	off	with	cranberry	juice.
variations


lime	shooter




see	base	recipe


vodka	lime	shooter
Substitute	plain	vodka	for	the	white	rum.


minty	lime	shooter
Replace	 the	 orange	 juice	 with	 the	 same	 quantity	 of	 green	 Crème	 de
Menthe.


golden	shooter
Use	 tequila	 instead	 of	 white	 rum	 and	 replace	 the	 orange	 juice	 with
mango	nectar.


bourbon	shooter
Replace	the	white	rum	with	bourbon.


lime	slammer
Pour	 the	 rum	 (or	 replace	 it	 with	 tequila)	 into	 a	 shooter	 glass,	 and	 add
the	 same	 amount	 of	 lemonade	 and	 a	 small	 squeeze	 of	 lime	 juice.	 Put
your	 hand	 over	 the	 top	 of	 the	 glass,	 hold	 the	 glass	 firmly,	 and	 slam	 it
down	on	a	hard	surface.	The	mix	will	bubble,	turn	white,	and	should	be
tossed	down	in	one	gulp.
variations


b-52




see	base	recipe


flaming	b-52
Although	 flaming	 a	 cocktail	 is	 great	 bar	 showmanship	 —	 it	 should	 be
approached	 with	 caution.	 Substitute	 dark,	 overproof	 rum	 (60–80%)	 for
Grand	Marnier	and	use	a	heatproof	glass.	Fill	to	the	top,	ignite	the	drink,
and	blow	out	just	before	drinking.


b-53
Replace	 the	 Grand	 Marnier	 with	 plain	 vodka.	 Pour	 the	 vodka	 into	 the
glass	 first,	 followed	 by	 the	 Kahlúa	 and	 finally	 by	 the	 Bailey’s	 Irish
Cream.
b-54
Replace	the	Grand	Marnier	with	Amaretto	Disaronno.	Pour	into	the	glass
first,	followed	by	the	Kahlúa	and	finally	by	the	Bailey’s	Irish	Cream.


b-special
Replace	the	Bailey’s	with	Amarula	Cream	liqueur.	Pour	it	into	the	glass
after	the	Kahlúa	and	before	the	Grand	Marnier.


b-banana
In	 the	 following	 order	 layer	 equal	 quantities	 of,	 Amaretto	 Disaronno,
Crème	de	Banane,	and	Amarula	Cream	or	Bailey’s	Irish	Cream.
variations


americano




see	base	recipe


americano	refresher
Pour	the	Campari	and	vermouth	into	a	highball	glass	half-filled	with	ice
and	top	off	with	soda	water	to	make	a	long	drink.


americano	bianco
Substitute	sweet	white	vermouth	for	the	red.


dry	americano
Substitute	Noilly	Prat	Dry	White	Vermouth	for	the	red.
orange	americano
Top	 off	 with	 orange	 juice	 rather	 than	 soda	 —	 add	 a	 dash	 for	 a	 short
drink	or	more	for	a	long,	refreshing	cocktail.


lemon	americano
Substitute	Noilly	Prat	Dry	White	Vermouth	for	the	red	and	add	a	dash	of
lemonade.
summer	sizzlers



Summer	is	the	perfect	time	to	enjoy	a	cool,	refreshing	cocktail,
and	 this	 chapter	 has	 something	 for	 everyone	 —	 whether	 you
crave	 an	 ice-cold	 Daiquiri,	 a	 chilled	 fruit-packed	 Pimm’s,	 a
tangy	Mint	Julep,	or	a	crystal	flute	of	sparkling	Buck’s	Fizz.
  white	wine	strawberry	spritzer
  see	variations


  Marinating	the	strawberries	in	the	wine	for	one	hour	gives	the	wine	time
  to	absorb	their	sweet,	scented	flavor.	If	you	want	a	less	alcoholic	drink,
  increase	the	quantity	of	mineral	or	soda	water.

1	large	or	2	small	strawberries,	hulled	and	chopped
3	fl.	oz.	dry	white	wine,	such	as	Pinot	Grigio
Dash	of	Crème	de	Fraise
3	fl.	oz.	sparkling	mineral	or	soda	water,	well	chilled
1	kiwifruit	slice,	to	serve

  Put	the	strawberries	in	a	large	wine	glass	or	highball	glass	and	add	the
  white	 wine.	 Leave	 in	 the	 fridge	 for	 one	 hour,	 muddling	 occasionally.
  Add	 the	 Crème	 de	 Fraise,	 stir	 well,	 and	 top	 off	 with	 the	 sparkling
  mineral	water	or	soda	water.	Decorate	the	glass	with	the	kiwifruit	slice
  and	serve	at	once.




  Serves	1
viva	sangria




see	variations
  Relaxing	days	by	the	pool	followed	by	romantic	nights	under	the	stars	—
  there’s	 no	 better	 way	 to	 relive	 the	 pleasures	 of	 that	 lazy,	 hazy	 Spanish
  break	than	with	a	glass	of	this	refreshing	summer	drink.	If	mixing	jugs	of
  Sangria	 for	 a	 party,	 avoid	 making	 them	 more	 than	 2	 hours	 before
  serving.	Keep	the	jugs	tightly	covered	with	plastic	wrap,	or	the	red	wine
  will	start	to	oxidize	and	the	drink	will	lose	its	freshness.

Ice	cubes
Fresh	fruit	slices,	such	as	lemon,	orange,	apple,	pineapple,	and	fig
1	tbsp.	brandy
3	fl.	oz.	well-chilled	red	wine
3	fl.	oz.	lemonade

  Half-fill	 a	 tall	 glass	 with	 ice	 cubes	 and	 drop	 in	 the	 slices	 of	 fresh	 fruit.
  Add	the	brandy	and	red	wine	and	then	slowly	pour	in	the	lemonade.	Stir
  well	before	drinking.




  Serves	1
bronx




see	variations
 Johnny	Solon,	the	bartender	of	New	York’s	Waldorf	Astoria	hotel	during
 the	 early	 1900s,	 took	 credit	 for	 inventing	 the	 Bronx	 cocktail	 in	 1906
 when	 the	 hotel	 was	 just	 known	 simply	 as	 the	 Waldorf,	 and	 it	 stood	 on
 the	site	where	the	Empire	State	Building	is	today.	Asked	by	a	customer
 one	 night	 to	 create	 a	 new	 cocktail	 for	 him,	 Johnny	 christened	 his	 gin,
 vermouth,	 and	 orange	 juice	 concoction	 a	 “Bronx.”	 Quizzed	 over	 the
 name,	 he	 replied	 his	 inspiration	 had	 come	 from	 a	 recent	 visit	 to	 the
 Bronx	Zoo	where	he’d	seen	so	many	strange	creatures	it	was	impossible
 to	tell	the	difference	between	the	zoo	and	his	bar.

2	fl.	oz.	gin
2	tsp.	sweet	red	vermouth
2	tsp.	dry	white	vermouth
2	tbsp.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
Ice	cubes
Orange	wedges	and	a	maraschino	cherry,	to	serve

 Put	 the	 gin,	 red	 vermouth,	 white	 vermouth,	 and	 orange	 juice	 in	 a
 cocktail	 shaker	 with	 ice	 cubes.	 Shake	 well.	 Three-quarters	 fill	 a	 glass,
 and	strain	in	the	drink.	Serve	with	a	stirrer	and	a	straw	and	decorate	the
 glass	with	orange	wedges	and	a	maraschino	cherry.




 Serves	1
strawberry	pimm’s




see	variations
  Fruit	 salad	 in	 a	 glass	 tankard	 is	 how	 many	 fans	 think	 of	 Pimm’s	 No.	 1
  Cup.	 This	 gin-based	 cocktail	 mix	 grew	 from	 humble	 beginnings	 as	 a
  house	specialty	during	the	1840s	at	James	Pimm’s	London	Oyster	Bar.	It
  has	 grown	 to	 become	 a	 permanent	 fixture	 on	 today’s	 English	 social
  calendar,	enjoyed	at	all	the	best	Henley,	Ascot,	and	Wimbledon	parties.
  Fresh	 strawberries	 muddled	 with	 the	 traditional	 mix	 add	 a	 refreshing,
  summery	 flavor.	 Mixed	 in	 a	 pitcher,	 this	 makes	 a	 good	 alfresco	 party
  drink	—	increase	the	quantities	according	to	the	number	of	your	guests.

3–4	strawberries,	roughly	chopped
2	fl.	oz.	Pimm’s	No.	1	Cup
About	3/4	cup	(6	fl.	oz.)	lemonade
Ice	cubes
Lemon,	orange,	and	apple	slices
Extra	small,	whole	strawberries
Cucumber	batons	or	strips	of	peel
Fresh	mint	sprigs

  Put	 the	 chopped	 strawberries	 in	 a	 glass	 tankard	 or	 tall	 glass	 and	 pour
  over	the	Pimm’s.	Crush	the	strawberries	with	a	muddler,	or	the	back	of	a
  spoon.	Add	4	or	5	ice	cubes	and	top	off	with	lemonade.	Stir	them,	drop
  in	lemon,	orange,	and	apple	slices,	small	whole	strawberries,	cucumber
  batons	or	strips	of	peel,	and	fresh	mint	sprigs.




  Serves	1
  berry	breeze
  see	variations


  A	 relaxing	 way	 to	 watch	 the	 late	 summer	 sun	 go	 down	 when	 you’re
  chilling	out	after	a	busy	day.

3	strawberries
6	blackberries
2	fl.	oz.	gin
1/2	fl.	oz.	Crème	de	Cassis
1/2	fl.	oz.	strawberry	syrup
Ice	cubes
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	lemonade
Extra	strawberries	and	blackberries,	to	serve

  Muddle	the	strawberries	and	blackberries	in	a	large	measuring	cup	with
  the	 gin,	 Crème	 de	 Cassis,	 and	 strawberry	 syrup.	 Strain	 into	 a	 tall	 glass
  three-quarters	filled	with	ice	cubes	and	top	off	with	the	lemonade.	Serve
  decorated	with	extra	strawberries	and	blackberries.




  Serves	1
 papaya	frappé
 see	variations


 Get	a	refreshing	flavor	of	the	tropics	with	this	long,	cooling	drink.	When
 buying	 exotic	 fruit,	 check	 its	 ripeness	 by	 smelling	 it.	 If	 the	 fruit	 smells
 sweet	and	fragrant,	that’s	how	it	will	taste;	but	if	it	has	no	scent,	it	will
 probably	have	no	taste	either.

1/4	ripe	papaya,	peeled,	deseeded,	and	chopped
1	tbsp.	crushed	ice
2	tbsp.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice
Juice	of	1/2	a	lime
4	1/2	fl.	oz.	sparkling	wine
Fresh	flowers,	to	decorate

 Put	 the	 papaya,	 crushed	 ice,	 orange	 juice,	 and	 freshly	 squeezed	 lime
 juice	in	a	blender,	and	blend	until	smooth.	Strain	into	a	champagne	flute
 and	carefully	pour	in	the	sparkling	wine.
 Stir	and	serve	immediately,	decorated	with	a	fresh	exotic	flower	such	as
 an	orchid	bloom.




 Serves	1
mint	julep




see	variations
  The	 first	 record	 of	 a	 mint	 julep	 being	 enjoyed	 —	 seemingly	 for	 its
  medicinal	 qualities	 —	 dates	 from	 1803,	 when	 John	 Davis,	 an
  Englishman	working	as	a	tutor	in	Virginia	at	one	of	the	great	Southern
  plantation	houses,	wrote	of	“a	dram	of	spirituous	liquor	that	has	mint	in
  it,	 taken	 by	 Virginians	 of	 a	 morning.”	 Today	 the	 mint	 julep	 is
  synonymous	with	the	Kentucky	Derby.	More	than	80,000	are	downed	at
  the	annual	two-day	event.

4	fresh	mint	leaves
1	tsp.	superfine	sugar
1	tsp.	cold	water
Crushed	ice
2	fl.	oz.	bourbon
Mint	sprigs,	to	serve

  Put	the	mint	leaves	in	the	bottom	of	a	highball	glass.	Add	the	sugar	and
  water	and	muddle	together	to	crush	the	leaves	and	release	their	flavor.
  Spoon	 crushed	 ice	 into	 the	 glass	 until	 it	 is	 three-quarters	 full.	 Add	 the
  bourbon	 and	 serve	 the	 drink	 with	 a	 straw	 and	 stirrer,	 decorated	 with
  fresh	mint	sprigs.




  Serves	1
pomegranate	margarita




see	variations
  It’s	 not	 surprising	 that	 many	 bartenders	 have	 claimed	 they	 created	 the
  Margarita,	 one	 of	 the	 world’s	 most	 famous	 cocktails.	 Carlos	 “Danny”
  Herrera’s	 case	 is	 certainly	 one	 of	 the	 most	 colorful.	 In	 the	 late	 1930s
  American	 showgirl	 Marjorie	 King	 was	 a	 regular	 customer	 at	 Herrera’s
  Bar,	Mexico.	Marjorie	was	allergic	to	all	spirits	apart	from	tequila,	and,
  because	 she	 refused	 to	 drink	 it	 straight,	 Danny	 struggled	 to	 serve	 her.
  One	 night	 he	 came	 up	 with	 the	 idea	 of	 blending	 tequila	 and	 Cointreau
  with	 fresh	 lime	 juice	 and	 crushed	 ice,	 a	 concoction	 he	 dubbed
  “Margarita,”	the	Mexican	version	of	Marjorie.

4	fl.	oz.	pomegranate	juice
Splash	of	Grenadine	for	added	color	(optional)
1	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice,	plus	extra	for	dipping
Fine	or	coarse	sea	salt
1/2	fl.	oz.	Triple	Sec
1	fl.	oz.	tequila
Pomegranate	seeds

  Pour	 the	 pomegranate	 juice	 (and	 Grenadine,	 if	 using)	 into	 a	 shallow
  container	 and	 freeze	 until	 ice	 crystals	 form.	 Dip	 the	 rim	 of	 a	 cocktail
  glass	in	lime	juice	and	then	into	salt	until	it	is	evenly	coated.	Break	up
  the	frozen	pomegranate	juice	until	it	is	slushy.	Place	in	a	cocktail	shaker
  with	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 lime	 juice,	 the	 Triple	 Sec,	 and	 tequila.	 Shake	 vigorously
  and	strain	into	the	glass.	Float	a	few	pomegranate	seeds	in	the	drink	and
  serve.




  Serves	1
in	the	pink	buck’s	fizz




see	variations
  The	 original	 Buck’s	 Fizz,	 made	 by	 mixing	 two-thirds	 champagne	 with
  one-third	 freshly	 squeezed	 orange	 juice,	 was	 created	 after	 World	 War	 I
  by	a	Mr.	McGarry,	the	bartender	at	the	time	of	Buck’s	Club	in	London’s
  Mayfair.	 Very	 specific	 about	 the	 proportions	 of	 his	 drink,	 he	 would	 no
  doubt	have	frowned	on	any	upstart	adding	a	dash	of	Grenadine,	but	the
  resulting	 pink	 glow	 makes	 this	 cocktail	 the	 ultimate	 romantic	 tipple,
  perfect	for	Valentine’s	Day	or	a	special	evening	in.

About	1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	champagne
About	2	fl.	oz.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice,	well	chilled
Dash	of	Grenadine

  Chill	the	champagne	and	orange	juice	thoroughly.	Pour	the	orange	juice
  into	 a	 frosted	 champagne	 flute	 to	 fill	 by	 one-third	 and	 slowly	 top	 off
  with	champagne.	Add	a	dash	of	Grenadine	and	serve	at	once.




  Serves	1
frozen	banana	daiquiri




see	variations
  Sixteen	 years	 after	 the	 first	 daiquiris	 were	 downed	 in	 Cuba,	 the	 La
  Floridita	 Bar	 in	 Havana	 added	 crushed	 ice	 to	 create	 the	 world’s	 first
  frozen	 daiquiri.	 Depending	 on	 the	 ripeness	 and	 sweetness	 of	 the	 fruit
  used,	you	may	need	to	add	a	little	sugar	syrup	to	the	finished	cocktail.

1	1/2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
3/4	fl.	oz.	Crème	de	Banane	liqueur
4	tsp.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
1/2	medium	banana,	peeled	and	roughly	chopped
Crushed	ice
Lime	wedges	and	extra	banana	slices,	to	decorate

  Measure	the	rum,	Crème	de	Banane,	and	lime	juice	into	a	blender,	add
  the	 chopped	 bananas,	 and	 blend	 for	 about	 10	 seconds.	 Add	 2–3
  tablespoons	 of	 crushed	 ice	 and	 blend	 for	 30	 seconds	 more.	 Pour	 into	 a
  large	 wine	 glass.	 Pop	 a	 couple	 of	 short	 straws	 into	 the	 glass	 and	 serve
  decorated	 with	 a	 wedge	 of	 lime	 and	 a	 slice	 of	 banana	 tucked	 over	 the
  side.




  Serves	1
variations


white	wine	strawberry	spritzer




see	base	recipe


melon	spritz
Substitute	 a	 little	 chopped	 honeydew	 melon	 for	 the	 strawberries,	 and
substitute	melon	liqueur	for	the	Crème	de	Fraise.


just	peachy	spritz
Substitute	 a	 quarter	 of	 a	 peeled	 yellow	 peach	 for	 the	 strawberries,	 and
substitute	Peach	Schnapps	for	the	Crème	de	Fraise.


strawberry	elderflower	spritz
Replace	 the	 Crème	 de	 Fraise	 with	 elderflower	 cordial	 and	 use	 lime-or
lemon-flavored	 sparkling	 water	 rather	 than	 plain.	 Decorate	 the	 glass
with	a	twist	of	citrus	peel	instead	of	kiwifruit.


raspberry	spritz
Marinate	 4	 gently	 crushed	 raspberries	 instead	 of	 strawberries	 in	 the
wine,	 and	 replace	 the	 Crème	 de	 Fraise	 with	 Crème	 de	 Framboise	 or
Crème	de	Cassis.
variations


viva	sangria




see	base	recipe


sangria	spritz
Replace	the	lemonade	with	1	fl.	oz.	orange	juice	and	2	fl.	oz.	soda	water
or	sparkling	mineral	water.	Sweeten	to	taste	with	a	dash	of	sugar	syrup.


sweet	apple	sangria
Replace	the	lemonade	with	sparkling	apple	juice.


sangria	sunrise
Rather	 than	 brandy,	 use	 an	 orange	 liqueur	 such	 as	 Cointreau	 or	 Grand
Marnier.


sangria	with	a	tropical	twist
Use	white	rum	instead	of	brandy,	and	use	slices	of	lime	and	fresh	mango
instead	of	lemon,	orange,	apple,	and	fig.
variations


bronx




see	base	recipe


dry	bronx
Omit	the	sweet	vermouth	and	increase	the	amount	of	dry	vermouth	to
3/4	fl.	oz.	or	4	teaspoons.


long	cool	bronx
Halve	 the	 amounts	 of	 gin,	 sweet	 vermouth,	 and	 dry	 vermouth.	 Shake
with	the	orange	juice,	and	strain	into	a	long	glass	over	ice,	and	top	off
with	soda	or	tonic	water.
vodka	bronx
Replace	the	gin	with	vodka.


johnny	solon’s	bronx
The	 original	 Bronx	 mix	 omitted	 the	 dry	 vermouth.	 It	 was	 made	 by
shaking	2	1/2	fl.	oz.	gin	with	1/2	fl.	oz.	sweet	red	vermouth	and	1/2	fl.
oz.	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice.
variations


strawberry	pimm’s




see	base	recipe


apple	pimm’s
Replace	the	lemonade	with	sparkling	apple	juice.


raspberry	and	red	currant	pimm’s
Muddle	 4	 raspberries	 and	 2	 sprigs	 of	 red	 currants	 (strip	 the	 currants
from	 the	 stalks)	 with	 the	 Pimm’s	 before	 topping	 off	 with	 lemonade.
Serve	decorated	with	a	small	sprig	of	red	currants	draped	over	the	side
of	the	glass.
pimm’s	with	a	punch
Pep	up	the	mix	by	adding	1/2	fl.	oz.	gin	or	vodka	along	with	the	Pimm’s
and	lemonade.


winter	pimm’s
Because	Pimm’s	No.	1	Cup	is	a	summer	drink,	in	winter	try	lightly	spiced
Pimm’s	No.	3	Cup.	Warm	2	fl.	oz.	Pimm’s	No.	3	Cup	with	6	fl.	oz.	apple
juice,	 2	 whole	 cloves,	 and	 half	 a	 cinnamon	 stick	 until	 almost	 boiling.
Pour	into	a	heatproof	tankard	or	tall	glass,	add	orange	and	apple	slices,
and	serve.
variations


berry	breeze




see	base	recipe


ginger	breeze
Top	off	with	ginger	ale	rather	than	lemonade.


orchard	breeze
Top	off	with	sparkling	apple	juice	rather	than	lemonade.


elderflower	breeze
Instead	 of	 adding	 lemonade,	 add	 1	 tablespoon	 elderflower	 cordial	 and
top	off	with	sparkling	mineral	water	or	soda	water.


cherry	breeze
Replace	the	strawberries	with	6	pitted	cherries	and	the	blackberries	with
raspberries.	 Muddle	 with	 the	 gin,	 substituting	 Crème	 de	 Framboise	 for
the	Crème	de	Cassis	and	Kirsch	for	the	strawberry	syrup.	Strain	over	ice
into	 a	 tall	 glass	 and	 top	 off	 with	 either	 lemonade	 or	 soda	 water.	 Serve
decorated	with	fresh	cherries	and	raspberries	instead	of	stawberrries	and
blackberries.
variations


papaya	frappé




see	base	recipe


mango	frappé
Substitute	half	a	ripe	mango,	peeled	and	chopped,	for	the	papaya.


lychee	frappé
Substitute	 4	 peeled	 and	 pitted	 fresh	 lychees	 (or	 4	 canned	 lychees,
drained)	for	the	papaya.


watermelon	frappé
Substitute	a	small	wedge	of	peeled	watermelon,	deseeded	and	chopped,
for	the	papaya.


coconut	frappé
Replace	the	papaya	with	3	fl.	oz.	thick	coconut	milk	and	the	orange	juice
with	pineapple	juice.
variations


mint	julep




see	base	recipe


brandy	mint	julep
Substitute	brandy	for	the	bourbon.


crème	de	menthe	julep
Instead	 of	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 stir	 the	 bourbon	 with	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 green	 or
white	 Crème	 de	 Menthe,	 then	 pour	 into	 a	 glass	 over	 crushed	 ice.
Decorate	with	fresh	mint	sprigs.


sour	julep
Muddle	the	mint	leaves	with	the	sugar	and	1	fl.	oz.	of	lime	juice	(instead
of	 water).	 Add	 crushed	 ice	 and	 pour	 over	 the	 bourbon.	 Decorate	 with
fresh	mint	sprigs.


tequila	julep
Substitute	tequila	for	the	bourbon.
variations


pomegranate	margarita




see	base	recipe


classic	margarita
Coat	the	rim	of	the	glass	as	in	the	basic	recipe.	Put	2	fl.	oz.	tequila	in	a
cocktail	shaker	with	1	fl.	oz.	Triple	Sec,	1	fl.	oz.	lime	juice,	and	plenty	of
ice	cubes.	Shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	the	glass.	Alternatively,	put	the
ingredients	 in	 a	 blender,	 add	 crushed	 ice,	 and	 blend	 before	 pouring
straight	into	the	glass.


blue	margarita
Follow	 the	 instructions	 for	 the	 Classic	 Margarita,	 but	 substitute	 Blue
Curacao	for	the	Triple	Sec.


kiwi	margarita
Frost	the	rim	of	the	glass	with	sugar,	if	preferred.	Put	1	fl.	oz.	tequila,	2
fl.	 oz.	 pineapple	 juice,	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 Triple	 Sec,	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 lime	 juice,	 and	 1
peeled,	 chopped	 kiwifruit	 into	 a	 blender.	 Add	 crushed	 ice	 and	 blend.
Pour	into	a	cocktail	glass.


peach	margarita
Follow	the	instructions	for	the	Kiwi	Margarita,	substituting	half	a	large,
or	small,	peeled,	ripe	peach	for	the	kiwifruit.
variations


in	the	pink	buck’s	fizz




see	base	recipe


mr.	mcgarry’s	buck’s	fizz
Prepare	the	basic	receipe,	but	omit	the	Grenadine.


grapefruit	fizz
Replace	the	orange	juice	with	white	or	pink	grapefruit	juice	and	add	the
Grenadine	or	omit	as	preferred.


pineapple	fizz
Replace	the	orange	juice	with	pineapple	juice	and	add	the	Grenadine	or
omit	as	preferred.


tropical	fizz
Replace	 the	 orange	 juice	 with	 a	 tropical	 fruit	 juice	 such	 as	 mango,
papaya,	or	watermelon.
variations


frozen	banana	daiquiri




see	base	recipe


frozen	strawberry	daiquiri
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 substituting	 Crème	 de	 Fraise	 (strawberry
liqueur)	for	the	Crème	de	Banane	and	4–5	large	strawberries,	hulled	and
halved	for	the	banana.	Decorate	glasses	with	an	extra	whole	strawberry
instead	of	the	lime	and	banana	slices.


frozen	kiwi	daiquiri
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 substituting	 sweet	 Kiwifruit	 Liqueur	 for	 the
Crème	de	Banane	and	1	peeled	kiwifruit	for	the	banana.	Decorate	glass
with	a	kiwifruit	slice,	instead	of	the	lime	and	bananas.


frozen	mango	daiquiri
Prepare	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 substituting	 the	 chopped	 flesh	 of	 half	 a	 ripe
mango	 for	 the	 banana	 and	 mango	 liqueur	 for	 the	 Crème	 de	 Banane.
Decorate	glass	with	just	a	lime	slice	or	wedge.


minted	berry	daiquiri
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	replacing	the	Crème	de	Banane	with	Crème	de
Framboise	 (raspberry	 liqueur)	 and	 the	 banana	 with	 1/2	 cup	 frozen
mixed	 berries,	 such	 as	 strawberries,	 raspberries,	 blueberries,	 and
blackberries.	 Decorate	 glass	 with	 a	 mint	 sprig,	 instead	 of	 the	 lime	 and
banana.
from	the	tropics



Just	 back	 from	 the	 vacation	 of	 a	 lifetime?	 Relive	 those	 magic
moments	 on	 a	 white	 beach	 by	 shaking	 up	 a	 tropical	 storm.
Whether	 it’s	 a	 Piña	 Colada,	 Mai	 Tai,	 Mojito,	 or	 “day-of-the-
dead”	 Zombie,	 you’ll	 be	 holding	 a	 glass	 of	 paradise	 in	 your
hand.
  hurricane	janet
  A	hurricane	might	seem	an	unlikely	cause	for	celebration,	but	the	huge
  storm	 that	 hit	 the	 Caribbean	 island	 of	 Grenada	 in	 1955	 inspired	 this
  great	 party	 drink.	 A	 similar	 cocktail,	 with	 coconut	 added	 to	 the	 mix,
  hails	from	the	same	island	and	bears	the	name	“Pain	Killer.”

1	1/2	fl.	oz.	gold	rum
1	1/2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
2	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
4	fl.	oz.	orange	juice
Juice	of	half	a	lime
Dash	of	Grenadine
Ice	cubes
Slice	of	tropical	fruit,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 gold	 rum,	 white	 rum,	 pineapple	 juice,	 orange	 juice,	 lime	 juice,
  and	 Grenadine	 into	 a	 cocktail	 shaker.	 Shake	 well.	 Half-fill	 a	 highball
  glass	or	cocktail	glass	with	ice	cubes	and	strain	in	the	drink.	Serve	with	a
  straw	 and	 decorate	 with	 a	 slice	 of	 tropical	 fruit	 such	 as	 pineapple,
  mango,	or	papaya.




  Serves	1
piña	colada




see	variations
  The	first	report	of	a	drink	called	a	piña	colada	can	be	traced	back	to	the
  December	1922	edition	of	Travel	magazine.	Translated	from	Spanish,	the
  name	means	“strained	pineapple,”	and	back	then	the	cocktail	was	simply
  fresh	 pineapple	 juice,	 ice,	 sugar,	 lime	 juice,	 and	 white	 rum	 shaken
  together	and	strained	into	a	glass.	Ramon	“Monchito”	Marrero	is	one	of
  several	bartenders	claiming	the	credit	for	adding	coconut	milk.	A	plaque
  in	Puerto	Rico	states	he	served	the	first	modern	piña	colada	in	the	bar	of
  the	Caribe	Hilton	Hotel	on	August	15,	1954,	after	spending	three	months
  perfecting	his	mix.

1	fl.	oz.	white	rum
2	fl.	oz.	thick	coconut	milk
4	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
Crushed	ice
Pineapple	wedge,	to	serve

  Put	the	white	rum,	coconut	milk,	and	pineapple	juice	in	a	blender	with
  2–3	tablespoons	of	crushed	ice.	Blend	until	smooth.	Pour	into	a	cocktail
  glass	and	serve	with	a	straw.	Decorate	the	drink	with	a	pineapple	wedge.




  Serves	1
mai	tai




see	variations
  In	1944,	Victor	Bergeron,	better	known	throughout	the	restaurant	world
  as	 “Trader	 Vic,”	 sat	 down	 one	 evening	 with	 the	 bartender	 of	 his
  Polynesian	 restaurant	 in	 Oakland,	 California,	 and	 the	 two	 of	 them
  decided	to	invent	a	new	drink.	The	resulting	mix	of	Jamaican	rum,	lime
  juice,	 orgeat	 syrup,	 Orange	 Curacao,	 and	 rock	 candy	 was	 offered	 to
  customers.	One	who	tried	it	immediately	exclaimed	“Mai	Tai,	Roa	Ae!”
  —	 which,	 as	 any	 Tahitian-speaker	 can	 tell	 you,	 means	 “out	 of	 this
  world.”

2	fl.	oz.	gold	rum
1/2	fl.	oz.	Orange	Curacao
Juice	of	1	lime
2	tsp	orgeat	syrup	(almond	syrup)
1	tsp.	Grenadine	(optional)
Crushed	ice
Wedges	of	lime	and	mint	sprig,	to	serve

  Put	the	rum,	Orange	Curacao,	lime	juice,	almond	syrup,	and	Grenadine
  into	 a	 cocktail	 shaker.	 Shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a	 glass	 half-filled
  with	 crushed	 ice,	 and	 serve	 decorated	 with	 wedges	 of	 lime	 and	 a	 mint
  sprig.	Add	a	stirrer	and	straw.




  Serves	1
zombie




see	variations
  Don	 Beach	 created	 the	 Zombie	 cocktail	 in	 1934	 at	 his	 Beachcomber
  restaurant	in	Hollywood	after	asking	a	hungover	customer	how	he	felt.
  His	 exotic	 brews	 became	 the	 stuff	 of	 legend,	 with	 regular	 clients	 no
  doubt	providing	inspiration	for	many	of	his	cocktails,	although	whether
  the	 Missionary’s	 Downfall	 (fresh	 pineapple,	 lime	 juice,	 mint,	 rum,	 and
  peach	 brandy)	 was	 among	 them	 is	 not	 recorded.	 The	 original	 Zombie
  was	a	mix	of	11	different	ingredients,	including	a	shot	of	151-proof	rum
  that	was	floated	on	top.	The	recipe	given	here	is	a	slightly	simplified	—
  and	marginally	less	lethal	—	version.

1/2	fl.	oz.	dark	rum
1/2	fl.	oz.	gold	rum
1/2	fl.	oz.	white	rum	or	Malibu	coconut	rum
3/4	fl.	oz.	apricot	brandy
1/3	fl.	oz.	lime	juice
2	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
1	tsp.	sugar	syrup
Crushed	ice	or	ice	cubes
Twist	of	lime	zest,	to	serve

  Put	all	the	ingredients	(except	the	ice)	into	a	cocktail	shaker	and	shake
  vigorously.	Pour	into	a	glass	half-filled	with	crushed	ice	or	ice	cubes	and
  stir	well.	Decorate	glass	with	a	twist	of	lime	zest.




  Serves	1
  planter’s	punch
  see	variations


  This	 generic	 name	 covers	 the	 wide	 variety	 of	 simple,	 but	 potent,	 rum-
  based	punches	served	all	over	the	West	Indian	islands.	The	rum	is	mixed
  with	different	fruit	juices	and	sometimes	given	an	extra	kick	with	locally
  grown	 spices	 such	 as	 nutmeg	 or	 cayenne.	 The	 first	 reference	 to	 a
  Planter’s	 Punch	 can	 be	 traced	 to	 a	 poem	 in	 the	 New	 York	 Times	 on
  August	8,	1908,	extolling	the	virtues	of	a	drink	made	with	Old	Jamaican
  rum	that	packed	a	serious	punch.

2	tbsp.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
2	tbsp.	sugar	syrup
3	fl.	oz.	dark	rum
Dash	of	Angostura	bitters
Crushed	ice
Pieces	of	fruit,	to	serve

  Put	the	lime	juice,	sugar	syrup,	rum,	and	Angostura	in	a	cocktail	shaker
  with	 2–3	 tablespoons	 of	 crushed	 ice	 and	 shake	 hard.	 Pour,	 unstrained,
  into	 a	 glass	 and	 decorate	 with	 pieces	 of	 fruit	 threaded	 onto	 a	 cocktail
  stick.	Serve	with	a	straw.




  Serves	1
  tropical	fruit	batida
  see	variations


  Batida	 is	 a	 Brazilian	 cocktail	 that	 features	 the	 national	 drink,	 Cachaca,
  with	sugar	and	various	tropical	fruits.	Almost	any	mixture	of	fruit	seems
  to	work.	The	Cachaca	can	also	be	replaced	with	vodka	or	white	rum.

1/4	mango,	peeled	and	sliced
1/4	papaya,	peeled,	deseeded,	and	sliced
2	fl.	oz.	Cachaca
3	tbsp.	crushed	ice
Mineral	water

  Put	 the	 mango	 and	 papaya	 in	 a	 blender;	 add	 the	 Cachaca	 and	 crushed
  ice;	and	blend	until	smooth.	Pour	into	a	cocktail	glass	and	top	off	with
  sparkling	or	still	mineral	water.	Serve	with	a	straw.




  Serves	1
jamaican	rum	punch




see	variations
  This	 is	 one	 is	 from	 Jamaica,	 where	 there	 are	 many	 mixes	 featuring	 the
  locally	 brewed	 rum	 —	 all	 designed	 to	 seduce	 visitors	 as	 well	 as	 locals
  looking	to	chill	out	as	the	sun	goes	down.

Juice	of	2	limes
1	fl.	oz.	orange	juice
1	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
2	tbsp.	Grenadine	syrup
2	fl.	oz.	light	rum
Ice	cubes	or	crushed	ice
Orange,	lime,	and	pineapple	slices,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 lime	 juice,	 orange	 juice,	 pineapple	 juice,	 Grenadine,	 rum,	 and
  plenty	of	ice,	in	a	cocktail	shaker.	Shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	glass
  and	serve	decorated	with	orange,	lime,	and	pineapple	slices.




  Serves	1
mojito




see	variations
  Along	with	cigars,	the	Mojito	is	one	of	Cuba’s	most	famous	exports.	Its
  name	 (pronounced	 mo-hee-toe)	 comes	 from	 the	 African	 word	 “mojo,”
  meaning	to	cast	a	little	spell.	Ernest	Hemingway	was	known	to	down	the
  odd	 Mojito	 in	 Havana’s	 La	 Bodeguita	 del	 Medio	 bar,	 and	 James	 Bond
  followed	his	lead	in	Die	Another	Day.

4	mint	leaves	or	2	sprigs,	plus	extra	to	serve
1	tsp.	superfine	sugar	or	sugar	syrup
Freshly	squeezed	juice	of	1	lime
2	fl.	oz.	white	rum
Ice	cubes
Soda	water
Lime	wedge	and	star	fruit	slice,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 mint	 leaves	 or	 sprigs,	 superfine	 sugar	 or	 sugar	 syrup,	 and	 lime
  juice	in	a	mixing	jug	or	straight	into	a	tall	glass.	Muddle	until	the	sugar
  dissolves	and	the	oils	are	released	from	the	mint,	making	it	aromatic.	Fill
  a	glass	with	ice	cubes,	add	the	rum,	and	stir	well.	If	using	a	mixing	jug,
  strain	or	pour	the	mix	into	the	glass,	and	top	off	with	soda	water.	Serve
  decorated	 with	 a	 lime	 wedge,	 slice	 of	 star	 fruit,	 and	 an	 extra	 sprig	 of
  mint.




  Serves	1
variations


hurricane	janet




see	base	recipe


tropical	storm
Instead	 of	 gold	 and	 white	 rum,	 use	 all	 gold	 rum	 or	 a	 mix	 of	 gold	 and
dark	rum.	Omit	the	orange	juice	and	add	4	fl.	oz.	of	pineapple	juice.


force	8	gale
Blend	 the	 ingredients	 together	 in	 a	 blender	 with	 2–3	 tablespoons	 of
crushed	ice.	Pour	into	a	chilled	glass.


calm	after	the	storm
For	 a	 less	 alcoholic	 drink,	 reduce	 the	 quantity	 of	 rum	 by	 half	 and
increase	the	quantity	of	pineapple	juice	by	1	1/2	fl.	oz.


rough	seas
Replace	the	Grenadine	with	a	dash	of	Blue	Curacao.


pain	killer
Omit	 the	 Grenadine	 and	 add	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 coconut	 milk.	 Serve	 with	 a	 light
sprinkling	of	freshly	grated	nutmeg.
variations


piña	colada




see	base	recipe


malibu	colada
For	 an	 extra	 kick,	 add	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 of	 Malibu	 coconut	 rum	 to	 the	 blender
with	the	other	ingredients.


chi	chi
Substitute	vodka	—	plain	or	vanilla	—	for	the	white	rum.


amaretto	piña	colada
Add	 3/4	 fl.	 oz.	 Amaretto	 Disaronno	 to	 the	 blender	 with	 the	 other
ingredients.


colada	sundowner
For	a	more	aromatic	drink,	use	dark	rum	instead	of	white.


mango	colada
Add	the	peeled,	chopped	flesh	of	half	a	ripe	mango	to	the	blender	with	
the	 other	 ingredients.	 Increase	 the	 quantity	 of	 pineapple	 juice	 to	 1	 cup
(8	fl.	oz.)	or	a	little	more	if	the	drink	is	too	thick.
variations


mai	tai




see	base	recipe


long,	tall	mai	tai
Strain	the	mix	into	a	well-chilled	highball	glass	over	4	or	5	ice	cubes	and
top	off	with	pineapple	juice.


apricot	mai	tai
Add	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 apricot	 brandy	 to	 the	 cocktail	 shaker	 with	 the	 other
ingredients.


orange	mai	tai
Add	1	fl.	oz.	orange	juice	to	the	mix	in	the	shaker,	or	pour	the	mix	over
ice	into	a	tall	glass	and	top	off	with	orange	juice.


mango	mai	tai
Add	1	tablespoon	of	mango	nectar	to	the	cocktail	shaker	with	the	other
ingredients	and	omit	the	Grenadine.


vodka	mai	tai
Replace	 the	 gold	 rum	 with	 vodka	 and	 add	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 orange	 juice	 to	 the
mix.
variations


zombie




see	base	recipe


orange	zombie
Reduce	 the	 lime	 juice	 to	 just	 a	 squeeze,	 increase	 the	 quantity	 of
pineapple	juice	to	3	fl.	oz.,	and	add	the	same	amount	of	freshly	squeezed
orange	juice.


cherry	&	almond	zombie
Replace	the	apricot	brandy	with	cherry	brandy	and	the	sugar	syrup	with
almond	syrup.
beginner’s	zombie
Too	many	Zombies	can	indeed	turn	you	into	the	walking	dead,	so	for	a
less	punishing	cocktail,	cut	the	total	quantity	of	rum	in	half	—	use	just
white	or	gold	—	and	triple	the	quantity	of	pineapple	juice	or	replace	it
with	orange	juice.


dead	man’s	chest	zombie
Seriously	crazy	revelers	can	add	over-proof	rum	instead	of	the	gold	rum,
but	don’t	say	you	haven’t	been	warned.


south	sea	island	zombie
Replace	 the	 pineapple	 juice	 with	 papaya	 juice	 and	 add	 a	 mixture	 of
chopped	tropical	fruits,	such	as	mangos,	papaya,	pineapple,	and	banana
to	the	glass.
variations


planter’s	punch




see	base	recipe


knock-out	punch
Serve	 the	 punch	 dusted	 with	 fiery	 cayenne	 pepper	 or	 freshly	 grated
nutmeg.


long,	cool	punch
Reduce	 the	 quantity	 of	 rum	 by	 half.	 Serve	 the	 punch	 in	 a	 tall	 glass
topped	with	soda	water.


puerto	rican	planter’s	punch
Halve	 the	 quantity	 of	 dark	 rum,	 shake	 with	 the	 other	 ingredients
(omitting	the	crushed	ice)	and	pour	unstrained	into	a	tall	glass.	Add	ice
cubes,	 a	 splash	 of	 soda	 water,	 and	 float	 1–2	 tablespoons	 of	 151	 proof
rum	on	top.


orange	planter’s	punch
Instead	of	making	the	basic	recipe,	shake	2	fl.	oz.	dark	rum	in	a	cocktail
shaker	with	1	teaspoon	of	lime	juice	and	2	fl.	oz	orange	juice.	Strain	into
a	glass	filled	with	ice	cubes	and	serve	with	a	stirrer.


white	planter’s	punch
Instead	of	making	the	basic	recipe,	pour	1	tablespoon	of	sugar	syrup	and
2	fl.	oz.	of	white	rum	into	a	glass.	Add	a	strip	of	lime	zest,	twisting	it	as
you	 drop	 it	 in	 to	 release	 the	 citrus	 oil.	 Add	 ice	 cubes	 and	 top	 off	 with
still	or	sparkling	water	to	taste.
variations


tropical	fruit	batida




see	base	recipe


watermelon	batida
Replace	the	mango	and	papaya	with	a	small,	peeled,	deseeded	wedge	of
watermelon.


guava	&	lychee	batida
Replace	 the	 mango	 and	 papaya	 with	 one	 peeled,	 deseeded	 guava	 and
two	peeled,	pitted	lychees	(or	two	canned	lychees,	drained).


kiwi	batida
Replace	the	mango	and	papaya	with	1	peeled,	chopped	kiwifruit.


strawberry	batida
Replace	 the	 mango	 and	 papaya	 with	 4–5	 hulled,	 ripe	 strawberries
(depending	on	size).


papaya	vodka	batida
Omit	the	mango	and	double	the	amount	of	papaya.	Replace	the	Cachaca
with	 the	 same	 amount	 of	 vodka.	 Add	 the	 juice	 of	 half	 a	 lime	 and	 2
teaspoons	 sugar	 syrup.	 Blend	 all	 the	 ingredients	 with	 the	 crushed	 ice
until	smooth.	Pour	into	a	glass	and	top	off	with	mineral	water.
variations


jamaican	rum	punch




see	base	recipe


the	gleaner
Pour	2	fl.	oz.	Jamaican	rum	into	a	glass	half-filled	with	crushed	ice,	
1	teaspoon	sugar	syrup,	and	a	slice	of	pineapple	and	orange.


trinidadian	rum	punch
Shake	 together	 3	 fl.	 oz.	 dark	 rum,	 with	 one	 tablespoon	 Grenadine,	 1
teaspoon	sugar	syrup,	and	the	juice	of	one	lime	and	half	a	lemon.	
Strain	over	ice	into	a	glass.
antiguan	rum	punch
Shake	together	3	fl.	oz.	white	rum,	the	juice	of	1	lime,	and	1	tablespoon
sugar	syrup.	Strain	over	ice	into	a	tall	glass	and	top	off	with	soda	water.


grenadan	rum	punch
Shake	 together	 3	 fl.	 oz.	 dark	 rum,	 1	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 lemon	 juice,	 and	 2
tablespoons	 Grenadine.	 Pour	 over	 ice	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 and	 top	 off	 with
soda	water.


bajan	rum	punch
Put	the	lime	juice	in	a	pitcher	with	two	tablespoons	of	sugar	syrup,	3	fl.
oz.	Bajan	rum,	and	4	fl.	oz.	still	mineral	water.	Stir	well.	Pour	into	a	tall
glass	 filled	 with	 ice	 and	 add	 a	 dash	 of	 Angostura	 and	 a	 sprinkling	 of
freshly	grated	nutmeg.
variations


mojito




see	base	recipe


lychee	&	raspberry	mojito
Muddle	 1	 peeled,	 pitted,	 chopped	 fresh	 lychee	 (or	 1	 canned	 lychee,
drained)	and	4	raspberries	with	the	mint,	sugar,	and	lime	juice,	but	do
this	 in	 the	 glass	 rather	 than	 a	 jug	 so	 the	 fruit	 can	 be	 enjoyed	 with	 the
drink.


strawberry	&	black	pepper	mojito
Make	the	Lychee	Mojito,	but	use	2–3	chopped,	hulled	strawberries,	and	
2	grindings	of	black	pepper.
mango	mojito
Make	 the	 Lychee	 Mojito,	 but	 muddle	 1	 tablespoon	 of	 chopped	 ripe
mango	flesh	in	the	glass	with	the	mint,	sugar,	and	lime	juice.


blackberry	mojito
Make	the	Lychee	Mojito,	but	muddle	5	blackberries	in	the	glass	with	the
mint,	sugar,	and	lime	juice.


mojito	royale
Muddle	the	mint,	sugar,	and	lime	juice	in	a	cocktail	shaker,	add	half	the
rum,	 and	 shake	 well.	 Strain	 into	 a	 champagne	 flute,	 top	 off	 with	 well-
chilled	champagne,	and	serve	decorated	with	a	sprig	of	mint.
after-dinner	drinks	&	winter
warmers



Keep	 the	 long	 winter	 nights	 at	 bay	 with	 a	 reviving	 mug	 of
Mulled	Wine	or	Spiced	Apple	Toddy,	and	round	off	a	relaxing
supper	 with	 a	 warming	 glass	 of	 Gaelic	 Coffee,	 Real	 Hot
Chocolate,	or	a	conversation-stopping	Pousse	Café.	Each	one	is
guaranteed	to	banish	the	winter	blues.
  spiced	hot	toddy
  see	variations


  If	 you’re	 feeling	 under	 the	 weather,	 this	 should	 have	 you	 back	 to	 your
  old	 self	 in	 no	 time.	 Use	 a	 clear	 honey	 and	 stir	 it	 into	 the	 other
  ingredients	over	a	low	heat	until	it	dissolves.

1/4	pt.	apple	juice
1	fl.	oz.	Apple	Schnapps
1	tsp.	honey
1	star	anise
Apple	slices,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 apple	 juice,	 Apple	 Schnapps,	 honey,	 and	 star	 anise	 in	 a	 small
  pan.	 Warm	 through	 gently	 without	 boiling,	 stirring	 until	 the	 honey
  dissolves.	 Cool	 for	 1	 minute	 and	 then	 pour	 into	 a	 glass.	 Serve	 with	 a
  couple	of	apple	slices	dropped	into	the	drink.




  Serves	1
gaelic	coffee




see	variations
  What	better	way	is	there	to	round	off	a	winter	meal	than	to	sit	back	and
  sip	a	glass	of	Gaelic	coffee,	savoring	every	mouthful	as	you	slowly	drink
  the	 hot	 coffee	 through	 the	 head	 of	 rich,	 luscious	 cream.	 Two	 tips	 for
  making	sure	the	cream	floats	—	the	coffee	and	whiskey	mixture	must	be
  sweetened	and	the	cream	must	be	poured	very	slowly	over	the	back	of	a
  spoon	so	it	skims	the	surface	and	doesn’t	plop	into	the	coffee.

1	fl.	oz.	Irish	whiskey
1	tsp.	soft	brown	sugar
4	fl.	oz.	hot	strong	black	coffee
About	2	fl.	oz.	chilled	heavy	cream

  Warm	a	goblet	or	cocktail	glass.	Add	the	whiskey	and	sugar	and	pour	in
  the	hot	coffee,	stirring	until	the	sugar	dissolves.	Slowly	pour	the	cream
  over	 the	 back	 of	 a	 spoon	 into	 the	 glass	 and	 allow	 it	 to	 stand	 for	 a	 few
  minutes	to	give	the	cream	time	to	float	on	the	surface	before	serving.




  Serves	1
mulled	wine




see	variations
  Not	a	drink	to	make	just	for	yourself,	but	one	that’s	guaranteed	to	ensure
  a	 warm	 welcome	 for	 Christmas	 carolers	 or	 New	 Year	 party	 guests.
  Overheating	 will	 cause	 too	 much	 of	 the	 alcohol	 to	 evaporate,	 so	 allow
  the	mix	to	just	come	to	a	simmer.	Once	made,	the	best	way	to	keep	the
  mulled	wine	warm	is	in	a	slow	cooker	where	it	will	stay	hot	but	not	boil.

1	cup	(8	fl.	oz.)	water
2/3	cup	superfine	sugar
2	small	oranges	or	3	clementines,	studded	with	4	or	5	whole	cloves
1	lemon,	sliced
2	cinnamon	sticks
1	bottle	dry	red	table	wine
1/2	bottle	ruby	port
Freshly	grated	nutmeg,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 water	 in	 a	 large	 suacepan.	 Add	 the	 sugar,	 oranges	 or
  clementines,	and	lemon	slices.	Heat	gently	until	the	sugar	dissolves,	then
  add	 the	 cinnamon	 sticks,	 wine,	 and	 port,	 and	 heat	 until	 simmering.
  Remove	from	the	heat	and	serve	very	hot	with	a	nutmeg	grated	on	top.




  Serves	1
real	hot	chocolate




see	variations
  It’s	worth	buying	good	quality	chocolate	with	around	70%	cocoa	solids
  to	turn	this	nursery	bedtime	drink	into	a	rich,	satisfying	grown-up	treat.
  Sip	 the	 chocolate	 through	 the	 whipped	 cream,	 or	 stir	 it	 in	 and	 let	 it
  dissolve,	as	you	prefer.

2	oz.	dark	chocolate,	chopped
7	fl.	oz.	milk
1	fl.	oz.	white	Crème	de	Cacao
Sugar	or	sugar	syrup,	to	taste
Whipped	cream,	to	serve
Grated	chocolate,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 chocolate	 in	 a	 double	 boiler	 to	 melt	 or	 in	 the	 microwave.	 Stir
  until	smooth.	Heat	the	milk	until	it	comes	to	a	boil,	pour	a	little	into	the
  chocolate,	 and	 whisk	 until	 mixed.	 Gradually	 blend	 in	 the	 rest	 of	 the
  milk,	 stir	 in	 the	 Crème	 de	 Cacao,	 and	 pour	 into	 a	 heavy	 glass	 or	 mug.
  Taste	 and	 sweeten	 with	 a	 little	 sugar	 or	 sugar	 syrup	 if	 necessary.	 Top
  with	whipped	cream	and	grated	chocolate.




  Serves	1
  brandy	alexander
  see	variations


  A	 gin-based	 cocktail	 called	 simply	 “Alexander”	 was	 popular	 during	 the
  early	part	of	the	twentieth	century.	The	Brandy	Alexander	was	reputedly
  created	 in	 1922,	 as	 an	 after-dinner	 drink	 to	 celebrate	 the	 London
  wedding	 of	 the	 Princess	 Royal	 to	 the	 British	 aristocrat	 Viscount
  Lascelles.

1	fl.	oz.	brown	Crème	de	Cacao
1	fl.	oz.	heavy	cream
1	fl.	oz.	brandy
Ice	cubes
Grated	nutmeg,	to	serve

  Pour	Crème	de	Cacao	and	cream	into	a	cocktail	shaker,	add	the	brandy
  and	plenty	of	ice	cubes,	and	shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	brandy	glass
  and	top	with	a	little	grated	nutmeg.




  Serves	1
  night	owl
  see	variations


  Coffee,	 orange,	 and	 cream	 make	 an	 irresistible	 after-dinner	 drink,
  especially	 during	 the	 cold	 winter	 months	 when	 you’re	 curled	 up	 in	 a
  soft,	 deep	 armchair	 beside	 a	 blazing	 fire.	 The	 three	 ingredients	 can	 be
  shaken	together	or	the	cream	can	be	floated	on	top.

1	fl.	oz.	Tia	Maria	or	Kahlúa
1	fl.	oz.	Triple	Sec
1	fl.	oz.	light	cream
Ice	cubes	(optional)

  Put	the	Tia	Maria,	Triple	Sec,	and	cream	into	a	cocktail	shaker	with	or
  without	some	ice	cubes.	Shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	small	glass	and
  serve	immediately.




  Serves	1
pousse	café




see	variations
  Layered	 cocktails	 not	 only	 look	 impressive	 but	 they	 make	 very	 good
  after-dinner	drinks.	Each	liquor	has	a	different	density,	so	as	long	as	the
  heaviest	 liquid	 is	 poured	 into	 the	 glass	 first,	 followed	 by	 the	 second
  heaviest,	 the	 third	 heaviest,	 and	 so	 on,	 finishing	 with	 the	 lightest,	 the
  individual	 liquids	 will	 remain	 separate,	 producing	 a	 rainbow-layered
  drink.	 In	 general	 terms,	 syrups	 and	 sweet	 drinks	 are	 the	 heaviest,
  flavored	liqueurs	are	in	the	middle,	and	spirits	are	the	lightest,	but	you
  may	 need	 to	 experiment	 first,	 as	 the	 densities	 of	 individual	 liquors	 can
  vary	from	one	manufacturer	to	another.

1/3	fl.	oz.	Grenadine
1/3	fl.	oz.	green	Crème	de	Menthe
1/3	fl.	oz.	Blue	Curacao
1/3	fl.	oz.	Benedictine
1/3	fl.	oz.	brandy

  Layer	the	ingredients	into	a	shot	or	sherry	glass	in	the	order	listed	above.
  Pour	 the	 Grenadine	 into	 the	 glass.	 For	 subsequent	 layers,	 pour	 each
  liquid	into	a	small	pitcher	first	and	then	drizzle	it	very	slowly	over	the
  back	 of	 a	 spoon,	 so	 it	 floats	 on	 the	 layer	 below.	 Give	 the	 layers	 a	 few
  moments	to	settle	before	serving.	The	drink	can	be	made	in	advance	and
  chilled	in	the	refrigerator	until	needed.




  Serves	1
rusty	nail




see	variations
  Drambuie	is	a	Scottish	liqueur	of	Scotch	whiskey	flavored	with	honey,	so
  it’s	 no	 surprise	 that	 its	 Gaelic	 name	 translates	 as	 “the	 drink	 that
  satisfies.”	Serve	this	over	ice	or	straight	up,	as	you	prefer.

2	fl.	oz.	Scotch	whiskey
1	fl.	oz.	Drambuie
Twist	of	lemon,	to	serve

  Pour	 the	 Scotch	 into	 a	 tumbler	 over	 ice	 or	 not,	 as	 preferred.	 Add	 the
  Drambuie	and	stir	well.	Drop	in	a	twist	of	lemon	and	serve.




  Serves	1
variations


spiced	hot	toddy




see	base	recipe


spiced	orange	toddy
Replace	the	apple	juice	with	orange	juice	and	the	Apple	Schnapps	with
Cointreau.	Serve	with	an	orange	slice	instead	of	apple	slices.


spiced	cranberry	peach	toddy
Replace	 the	 apple	 juice	 with	 cranberry	 juice	 and	 the	 Apple	 Schnapps
with	 Peach	 Schnapps.	 Serve	 with	 a	 couple	 of	 peaches	 instead	 of	 apple
slices.
spiced	grapefruit	toddy
Replace	 the	 apple	 juice	 with	 grapefruit	 juice	 and	 the	 Apple	 Schnapps
with	 plain	 or	 grapefruit-flavored	 vodka.	 Serve	 with	 a	 couple	 of
grapefruit	segments	instead	of	apple	slices.


spiced	pineapple	toddy
Replace	 the	 apple	 juice	 with	 pineapple	 juice	 and	 the	 Apple	 Schnapps
with	gold	rum.	Serve	with	a	wedge	of	pineapple	instead	of	apple	slices.


spiced	cherry	toddy
Replace	the	Apple	Schnapps	with	cherry	brandy	or	kirsch.	Serve	with	a
maraschino	cherry	on	a	cocktail	stick	instead	of	apple	slices.
variations


gaelic	coffee




see	base	recipe


calypso	coffee
Replace	the	Irish	whiskey	with	Tia	Maria.


normandy	coffee
Replace	the	Irish	whiskey	with	Calvados.


italian	coffee	completo
Replace	the	Irish	whiskey	with	Grappa.
tokyo	coffee
Replace	the	Irish	whiskey	with	sake.


russian	coffee
Replace	the	Irish	whiskey	with	vodka.
variations


mulled	wine




see	base	recipe


gluhwein
Replace	port	with	red	wine	and	add	1	cup	(8	fl.	oz.)	orange	juice	instead
of	 oranges	 or	 clementines.	 Add	 3	 cloves	 and	 6	 allspice	 berries,	 1	 split
vanilla	 pod,	 and	 the	 cinnamon	 sticks.	 Serve	 with	 raisins	 instead	 of
nutmeg.


julglogg
Make	 as	 for	 Gluhwein,	 omitting	 the	 orange	 juice	 and	 replacing	 it	 with
gin.
the	bishop
Put	the	oranges	or	clementines	in	a	pan.	Add	1	1/2	bottles	ruby	port,	2
cups	water,	and	2	oz.	superfine	sugar.	Add	cinnamon	sticks	and	simmer.


mulled	rum	punch
Place	1	cup	water	in	pan	with	7	oz.	brown	sugar,	rind	of	2	oranges,	and	
1	lemon.	Boil	until	reduced	by	half.	Place	in	another	pan,	add	the	juice
of	 2	 oranges	 and	 lemon,	 cinnamon	 sticks,	 and	 1/2	 pint	 dark	 rum.
Simmer.


mulled	ale
Place	lemon	rind	and	juice	in	a	saucepan.	Add	1	cup	(8	fl.	oz.)	light	ale,	
4	 tablespoons	 brandy,	 4	 tablespoons	 dark	 rum,	 1/2	 cup	 water,	 2
tablespoons	 demerera	 sugar,	 and	 2	 cinnamon	 sticks.	 Heat	 until	 almost
boiling	and	serve.
variations


real	hot	chocolate




see	base	recipe


minty	hot	chocolate
Replace	 the	 white	 Crème	 de	 Cacao	 with	 white	 Crème	 de	 Menthe	 and
serve	with	grated	mint	chocolate	on	top.


orange	hot	chocolate
Replace	the	white	Crème	de	Cacao	with	Cointreau	and	serve	with	grated
orange	chocolate	on	top.


brandied	hot	chocolate
Replace	the	white	Crème	de	Cacao	with	brandy.


mocha	chocolate
Replace	the	white	Crème	de	Cacao	with	Kahlúa	or	Tia	Maria.


coconut	hot	chocolate
Replace	the	white	Crème	de	Cacao	with	Malibu	Coconut	Rum	and	serve
with	toasted	dried,	shredded	coconut	sprinkled	on	top.
variations


brandy	alexander




see	base	recipe


choc-topped	brandy	alexander
Serve	the	drink	in	a	wide-brimmed,	shallow	cocktail	glass	such	as	a	
saucer-shaped	champagne	glass.	Before	pouring	in	the	drink,	rub	the	
rim	of	the	glass	with	a	lemon	wedge	and	dip	it	in	grated	dark	chocolate.


white	brandy	alexander
Replace	the	dark	Crème	de	Cacao	with	white	Crème	de	Cacao.


brandy	alexander	frozen	smoothie
Put	the	Crème	de	Cacao	and	brandy	in	a	blender	and	add	1/2	cup	
(4	fl.	oz.)	vanilla	ice	cream.	Blend	until	creamy	and	smooth	then	pour	
into	a	brandy	glass.


amaretto	alexander
Replace	the	brandy	with	Amaretto	Disaronno	and	double	the	quantity	of
cream.


apricot	alexander
Replace	the	brandy	with	apricot	brandy.
variations


night	owl




see	base	recipe


owl	with	a	night	cap
Pour	 the	 Tia	 Maria	 and	 Triple	 Sec	 into	 a	 small	 glass.	 Replace	 the	 light
cream	with	heavy	cream	and	carefully	float	it	on	top	of	the	drink.


long	cool	night	owl
Shake	the	ingredients	together	without	any	ice.	Pour	mix	over	ice	into	a
tumbler.	Serve	with	a	stirrer.


amaretto	night	owl
Replace	the	Triple	Sec	with	Amaretto	Disaronno.


spirit	of	the	night
Replace	the	Triple	Sec	with	mandarin-or	orange-flavored	vodka.


mocha	night	owl
Replace	the	Triple	Sec	with	white	or	brown	Crème	de	Cacao.
variations


pousse	café




see	base	recipe


independence	day
For	a	Fourth	of	July	or	Bastille	Day	party,	layer	Grenadine,	followed	by
white	Crème	de	Menthe,	and	then	Blue	Curacao.


you’ve	passed!
Celebrate	 passing	 your	 driving	 test	 with	 a	 “traffic	 light”	 layering	 of
Grenadine,	followed	by	Galliano,	and	then	melon	liqueur.


coffee,	peaches	&	cream
For	a	sultry	summer	evening,	layer	ice-cold	Kahlúa,	peach	schnapps,	and
Bailey’s	Irish	Cream	liqueur.


bellissimo
Round	off	an	Italian	meal	with	a	liquid	tricolor	—	Grenadine,	followed
by	Amaretto	Disaronno,	and	green	Chartreuse.


give	thanks
Celebrate	 Thanksgiving	 by	 layering	 Peach	 Schnapps,	 followed	 by
cranberry	juice,	and	finally	vodka.
variations


rusty	nail




see	base	recipe


vodka	rusty	nail
Replace	the	whiskey	with	the	same	quantity	of	vodka.


auld	nick
Shake	 half	 quantities	 of	 the	 Scotch	 and	 Drambuie	 with	 1	 tablespoon
each	 of	 orange	 and	 lemon	 juice.	 Strain	 into	 a	 tumbler	 over	 ice	 and
decorate	with	a	lemon	twist.


isle	of	skye
Shake	together	1	fl.	oz.	Drambuie,	1	fl.	oz.	gin,	and	1	fl.	oz.	lemon	juice.
Serve	straight	up	or	over	ice	garnished	with	a	lemon	twist.


rob	roy
Stir	or	shake	together	the	Scotch	with	1/2	fl.	oz.	dry	white	vermouth,	a
dash	 of	 Angostura	 bitters,	 and	 half	 a	 teaspoon	 of	 syrup	 from	 a	 jar	 of
maraschino	 cherries.	 Serve	 strained,	 into	 a	 well-chilled	 cocktail	 glass,
decorated	with	a	cherry.


malted	martini
Shake	 or	 stir	 together	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 vodka	 with	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 single	 malt	 (the
smoky	 malts	 from	 Islay	 work	 well).	 Strain	 into	 a	 glass.	 Serve	 with	 an
olive	on	a	cocktail	stick.
virgin	cocktails



Don’t	drink	and	drive	—	you	know	it	makes	sense	—	but	when
it’s	 your	 turn	 to	 chauffeur	 your	 fellow	 revelers	 home,	 you
needn’t	miss	out	on	all	the	fun.	These	nonalcoholic	indulgences
taste	as	good	as	they	look	and	will	make	any	occasion	go	with
a	swing.
  pussyfoot
  see	variations


  A	virgin	cocktail	dating	from	the	1920s	and	the	years	of	Prohibition,	it
  was	 named	 for	 William	 E.	 “Pussyfoot”	 Johnson,	 an	 anti-liquor
  campaigner	who	fought	fiercely	to	convince	his	fellow	men	of	the	evils
  of	 liquor.	 Things	 weren’t	 all	 they	 seemed,	 however;	 in	 1926	 the	 same
  Mr.	Johnson	was	forced	to	admit	that,	in	the	pursuit	of	his	cause,	he	had
  had	to	drink	“gallons	of	alcohol”	to	give	him	strength	to	keep	going.

1	fl.	oz.	orange	juice
1	fl.	oz.	lime	juice
1	fl.	oz.	lemon	juice
Dash	of	Grenadine
1	fresh	egg	yolk	(from	a	free-range	egg)
Ice	cubes
Twist	of	lime	zest,	to	serve

  Pour	the	orange	juice,	lime	juice,	lemon	juice,	Grenadine,	and	egg	yolk
  into	a	cocktail	shaker	with	plenty	of	ice	cubes.	Shake	hard.	Strain	into	a
  wine	glass	and	serve	with	a	twist	of	lime	zest.




  Serves	1
ice	bite




see	variations
  More	 than	 a	 hint	 of	 pink	 makes	 this	 long,	 tall	 cooler	 just	 right	 for	 a
  summer’s	 day.	 If	 making	 it	 for	 a	 picnic,	 put	 the	 ingredients	 into	 a
  thermos	with	the	ice	and	shake	well	before	serving.

2	fl.	oz.	pink	grapefruit	juice
4	fl.	oz.	cranberry	juice
Juice	of	1/2	lime
Crushed	ice

  Put	 the	 grapefruit	 juice,	 cranberry	 juice,	 and	 lime	 juice	 into	 a	 cocktail
  shaker.	 Shake	 well.	 Fill	 a	 tall	 glass	 with	 crushed	 ice	 and	 pour	 in	 the
  drink.




  Serves	1
lime,	mint	&	lemongrass	sparkler




see	variations
  Fragrant	 mint	 combined	 with	 exotic	 lemongrass	 and	 sparkling	 apple
  juice	makes	a	delicious,	long,	and	cooling	beverage.

4	sprigs	of	fresh	mint
1/2	lemongrass	stalk,	tough	outer	leaves	removed,	finely	chopped
1	tbsp.	Rose’s	Lime	Juice	(or	mix	equal	quantities	sugar	syrup	and
  fresh	lime	juice)
Ice	cubes
Sparkling	apple	juice
Apple	slices	and	lime	wedge,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 mint	 and	 lemongrass	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 with	 the	 lime	 juice	 and
  muddle	together	to	release	their	flavors.	Half-fill	the	glass	with	ice	and
  top	off	with	sparkling	apple	juice.	Serve	decorated	with	apple	slices	and
  a	lime	wedge.




  Serves	1
piña	moclada




see	variations
  Cool,	creamy,	and	refreshing,	serve	this	virgin	cousin	of	the	Piña	Colada
  in	a	tall	glass	with	plenty	of	ice.

1/2	banana,	peeled	and	chopped
7	fl.	oz.	pineapple	juice
3	fl.	oz.	coconut	milk
Ice

  Put	 the	 banana,	 pineapple	 juice,	 and	 coconut	 milk	 in	 a	 blender.	 Blend
  until	 smooth	 and	 creamy.	 Pour	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 half-filled	 with	 ice	 and
  serve	with	a	straw.




  Serves	1
kiwi	crush




see	variations
  Served	in	a	cocktail	glass	with	a	frosted	sugar	rim	this	will	bring	a	smile
  to	the	face	of	teens	desperate	to	emulate	their	older	siblings	and	drivers
  wanting	to	get	into	the	party	spirit	without	the	alcohol.

Lime	wedge
Superfine	sugar
1	tbsp.	freshly	squeezed	lime	juice
1/2	tsp.	sugar	syrup,	or	to	taste
1	kiwifruit,	peeled	and	chopped
2	fl.	oz.	apple	juice

  Rub	 the	 rim	 of	 a	 cocktail	 glass	 with	 the	 lime	 wedge,	 and	 dip	 in	 the
  superfine	sugar	to	coat	in	an	even	layer.	Put	the	lime	juice,	sugar	syrup,
  chopped	kiwifruit,	and	the	apple	juice	in	a	blender.	Blend	until	smooth.
  Pour	into	a	martini	glass	and	serve	at	once.




  Serves	1
shirley	temple




see	variations
  Probably	 the	 first	 virgin	 “mocktail”	 was	 named	 in	 honor	 of	 the	 1930s
  child	 film	 star.	 It	 makes	 the	 perfect	 drink	 for	 pretty	 girls	 everywhere.
  The	ginger	ale	adds	a	nice	spicy	edge	to	the	sweet	and	long	drink.

Ice	cubes
2	dashes	of	Grenadine
3/4–1	cup	(6–8	fl.	oz.)	ginger	ale
Lemon	wedges,	to	serve

  Fill	 a	 tall	 highball	 glass	 with	 ice.	 Add	 a	 couple	 of	 dashes	 of	 Grenadine
  and	top	off	with	the	ginger	ale.	Squeeze	a	couple	of	lemon	wedges	over
  the	top	before	droping	them	in	the	drink.	Stir	and	serve.




  Serves	1
red	berry	soda




see	variations
  A	good	summer	party	drink	when	homegrown	strawberries	are	at	their
  best.	 Although	 strawberries	 lose	 their	 texture	 when	 frozen,	 it	 doesn’t
  matter	as	they	are	puréed	for	this	drink.	If	you	have	extra	strawberries
  freeze	them	to	use	later	in	the	year.

1	tsp.	raspberry	syrup	or	plain	sugar	syrup
2/3	cup	sliced	strawberries
2	fl.	oz.	raspberry	juice
Ice	cubes
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	soda	water
Raspberries	and	extra	strawberries,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 raspberry	 syrup,	 strawberries,	 and	 raspberry	 juice	 in	 a	 blender.
  Blend	until	smooth.	Pour	into	a	highball	glass	half-filled	with	ice	cubes
  and	 top	 off	 with	 the	 soda	 water.	 Serve	 decorated	 with	 raspberries	 and
  extra	strawberries.




  Serves	1
mango	&	coconut	refresher




see	variations
  Another	 taste	 of	 the	 sun-kissed	 Caribbean,	 courtesy	 of	 this	 smooth,
  creamy	 cooler.	 Use	 a	 very	 ripe,	 sweet,	 and	 fragrant	 mango	 so	 the
  finished	drink	has	plenty	of	fresh,	fruity	flavor.

1/2	ripe	mango,	peeled	and	chopped
2	fl.	oz.	thick	coconut	milk
Ice	cubes
About	1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	soda	water

  Put	 the	 mango	 and	 coconut	 milk	 in	 a	 blender,	 and	 blend	 until	 smooth.
  Pour	 into	 a	 tall	 glass	 half-filled	 with	 ice	 cubes	 and	 top	 off	 with	 soda
  water.




  Serves	1
variations


pussyfoot




see	base	recipe


pussyfoot	frappe
Put	 all	 the	 ingredients	 except	 the	 ice	 cubes	 into	 a	 blender.	 Add	 2–3
tablespoons	 of	 crushed	 ice	 and	 blend	 together	 until	 the	 ice	 is	 finely
crushed.	Pour	into	a	large	wine	glass	and	serve	with	a	straw.


orange	pussyfoot
Double	 the	 quantity	 of	 orange	 juice	 and	 reduce	 by	 half	 the	 amount	 of
both	the	lime	juice	and	lemon	juice.
grapefruit	pussyfoot
Replace	 the	 lime	 juice	 and	 lemon	 juice	 with	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 white	 grapefruit
juice.


apple	pussyfoot
Replace	the	lime	juice	and	lemon	juice	with	2	fl.	oz.	apple	juice.


strawberry	pussyfoot
Replace	the	Grenadine	with	1	teaspoon	strawberry	syrup.
variations


ice	bite




see	base	recipe


orange	ice	bite
Replace	the	pink	grapefruit	juice	with	the	same	quantity	of	orange	juice.


apple	ice	bite
Replace	the	pink	grapefruit	juice	with	the	same	quantity	of	apple	juice.


goji	berry	ice	bite
Replace	the	pink	grapefruit	juice	with	goji	berry	juice.
pineapple	ice	bite
Replace	 the	 pink	 grapefruit	 juice	 with	 white	 grapefruit	 juice	 and	 the
cranberry	juice	with	pineapple	juice.


pink	cloud	ice	bite
Replace	the	cranberry	juice	with	blood	orange	juice.
variations


lime,	mint	&	lemongrass	sparkler




see	base	recipe


lemon	&	mint	sparkler
Replace	 the	 lime	 with	 a	 wedge	 of	 lemon,	 and	 muddle	 it	 with	 the	 mint
and	 lemongrass.	 Add	 ice	 and	 top	 off	 with	 lemonade	 or	 bitter	 lemon
instead	of	apple	juice.	Serve	decorated	with	a	lemon	slice.


st.	clements	sparkler
Replace	 the	 sparkling	 apple	 juice	 with	 a	 sparkling	 orange	 drink.
Decorate	the	glass	with	just	the	lime	wedge.
mint	&	cola	sparkler
Omit	the	lime	and	replace	the	sparkling	apple	juice	with	cola.	Omit	the
apple	slices	and	lime	wedge.


mint	&	ginger	sparkler
Omit	 the	 lime	 and	 replace	 the	 sparkling	 apple	 juice	 with	 ginger	 ale.
Omit	the	apple	slices	and	lime	wedge.


mint	&	strawberry	sparkler
Replace	the	lemongrass	with	2	chopped	strawberries	and	the	lime	with	1
teaspoon	 strawberry	 syrup.	 Top	 off	 with	 sparkling	 mineral	 water.
Decorate	the	glass	with	a	mint	sprig.
variations


piña	moclada




see	base	recipe


sunrise	moclada
Add	a	dash	of	Grenadine	to	the	finished	drink	and	stir	before	drinking.


mango	moclada
Replace	the	banana	with	the	chopped,	peeled	flesh	of	half	a	ripe	mango.


strawberry	moclada
Replace	the	banana	with	4	large,	hulled	strawberries	and	add	a	dash	of
strawberry	syrup.


kiwi	moclada
Replace	 the	 banana	 with	 1	 peeled	 and	 chopped	 kiwifruit,	 and	 replace
half	the	pineapple	juice	with	apple	juice.


papaya	moclada
Replace	the	banana	with	the	chopped,	peeled,	and	deseeded	flesh	of	half
a	small	ripe	papaya.
variations


kiwi	crush




see	base	recipe


strawberry	crush
Replace	 the	 kiwifruit	 with	 4	 hulled	 strawberries,	 and	 use	 strawberry
syrup	instead	of	plain	sugar	syrup.


mango	crush
Replace	the	kiwifruit	with	the	chopped	flesh	of	half	a	ripe	mango.


clementine	crush
Replace	 the	 kiwifruit	 with	 a	 peeled	 clementine.	 After	 blending	 the
ingredients,	strain	the	mixture	into	the	glass.


apricot	crush
Replace	 the	 kiwifruit	 with	 2	 pitted	 apricots,	 adding	 a	 little	 more	 apple
juice	if	the	drink	is	too	thick.


peach	crush
Replace	the	kiwifruit	with	the	chopped	flesh	of	half	a	ripe	peach.	After
blending	 the	 ingredients,	 strain	 the	 mixture	 into	 the	 glass.	 Add	 a	 little
more	apple	juice	if	the	drink	is	too	thick.
variations


shirley	temple




see	base	recipe


strawberry	shirley	temple
Replace	the	Grenadine	with	strawberry	syrup.


raspberry	shirley	temple
Replace	 the	 Grenadine	 with	 raspberry	 syrup,	 and	 the	 ginger	 ale	 with
bitter	lemon.


lemon	drop	kid
Replace	the	ginger	ale	with	lemonade	or	7-Up.


orange	drop	kid
Replace	the	ginger	ale	with	a	sparkling	orange	drink.


roy	rogers
We	can’t	let	the	boys	feel	left	out!	Replace	the	ginger	ale	with	cola.
variations


red	berry	soda




see	base	recipe


raspberry	&	blueberry	soda
Purée	 the	 syrup	 with	 1/2	 cup	 blueberries	 instead	 of	 strawberries	 and
serve	decorated	with	raspberries	and	extra	blueberries.


strawberry	&	elderflower	soda
Purée	 the	 strawberries	 with	 1	 tablespoon	 elderflower	 juice	 instead	 of
syrup.


red	berry	&	apple	soda
Top	off	with	sparkling	apple	juice	instead	of	soda	water.


red	berry	&	lemon	soda
Top	off	with	lemonade	or	bitter	lemon	instead	of	soda	water.


blackberry	soda
Purée	 the	 syrup	 with	 1/2	 cup	 blackberries	 instead	 of	 strawberries	 and
serve	decorated	with	raspberries	and	extra	blackberries.
variations


mango	&	coconut	refresher




see	base	recipe


mango,	coconut	&	apple	refresher
Top	off	with	sparkling	apple	juice	rather	than	soda	water.


papaya	&	coconut	refresher
Replace	 the	 mango	 with	 the	 chopped,	 peeled,	 deseeded	 flesh	 of	 half	 a
small	ripe	papaya.


lychee	&	coconut	refresher
Replace	the	mango	with	4	peeled,	pitted,	canned	rambutans	if	available,
or	substitute	lychees.


watermelon	&	coconut	refresher
Replace	 the	 mango	 with	 the	 chopped	 flesh	 of	 a	 small	 wedge	 of	 peeled,
deseeded	watermelon.


raspberry	&	coconut	refresher
Replace	the	mango	with	8	fresh	or	frozen	raspberries.
hangover	cures



If	 you’re	 suffering	 the	 after-effects	 of	 last	 night’s	 celebrations,
one	of	these	hangover	cures	should	set	you	back	on	the	straight
and	 narrow.	 Be	 warned,	 though,	 they’re	 too	 good	 to	 be	 filed
away	 under	 “hair	 of	 the	 dog,”	 and	 you’ll	 find	 all	 sorts	 of
excuses	for	mixing	one	up.
  walk	the	line
  see	variations


  Ginger	is	well-known	for	settling	a	stomach	with	a	mind	of	its	own,	so
  this	long,	spicy	refresher	should	have	you	back	on	your	feet	and	ready	to
  rock	’n’	roll	all	over	again.

2	fl.	oz.	vodka
Juice	of	1	lime
Dash	of	sugar	syrup
Ice	cubes
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	well-chilled	ginger	ale
Lime	wedges,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 vodka,	 lime	 juice,	 sugar	 syrup,	 and	 plenty	 of	 ice	 cubes	 into	 a
  cocktail	 shaker.	 Shake	 vigorously.	 Strain	 into	 a	 glass	 and	 top	 off	 with
  well-chilled	ginger	ale.	Serve	with	lime	wedges.




  Serves	1
bullshot




see	variations
  If	 you	 can’t	 face	 any	 of	 the	 appetizers	 on	 the	 lunch	 menu,	 this	 full-
  flavored	cocktail	would	make	a	revitalizing	alternative	to	soup.	Chill	the
  bouillon	well	before	shaking	it	with	the	other	ingredients.

2	fl.	oz.	vodka
1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	chilled	beef	bouillon	or	well-flavored	stock
Dash	lemon	juice
2–3	dashes	Worcestershire	sauce
Pinch	of	celery	salt
1–2	dashes	Tabasco
Twist	of	lime	or	lemon,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 vodka,	 bouillon,	 lemon	 juice,	 Worcestershire	 sauce,	 celery	 salt,
  and	 Tabasco	 in	 a	 cocktail	 shaker.	 Add	 extra	 Worcestershire	 sauce	 or
  Tabasco	 if	 you	 want	 to	 spice	 the	 mix	 up.	 Shake	 well,	 strain	 into	 a
  tumbler,	and	add	a	twist	of	lime	or	lemon.	Serve	with	a	stirrer.




  Serves	1
eggnog




see	variations
  Originally	a	punch	made	with	milk	and	wine	or	sherry,	eggnog	became	a
  popular	tipple	in	English	taverns	during	the	eighteenth	century	when	it
  was	 served	 in	 small,	 carved,	 mugs	 known	 as	 noggins.	 The	 drink	 later
  became	 associated	 with	 Christmas,	 with	 many	 Victorians	 believing	 the
  celebrations	 hadn’t	 properly	 begun	 until	 they’d	 downed	 a	 glass	 of
  eggnog	—	which	no	doubt	helped	cure	the	effects	of	over	indulgence	the
  night	 before.	 When	 the	 drink	 crossed	 the	 Atlantic	 to	 America,	 rum
  replaced	the	sherry	and	became	so	popular	that	even	George	Washington
  created	his	own	recipe,	which	included	rye	whiskey,	rum,	and	sherry.

1	large	egg,	separated
1	1/2	tsp.	superfine	sugar
Few	drops	of	vanilla	extract
2	fl.	oz.	dark,	gold,	or	white	rum
3	fl.	oz.	full-fat	milk
2	fl.	oz.	heavy	cream
Freshly	grated	nutmeg,	to	dust

  Put	the	egg	yolk,	sugar,	and	vanilla	in	a	bowl	and	whisk	together	until
  pale	and	creamy.	Gradually	whisk	in	the	rum,	followed	by	the	milk.	In	a
  separate	bowl,	whisk	the	egg	white	until	it	stands	in	soft	peaks.	Fold	the
  egg	 yolk	 mixture	 into	 the	 whisked	 white.	 Whip	 the	 cream	 until	 it	 just
  holds	its	shape	and	then	fold	it	in	as	well.	Spoon	into	a	glass	and	serve
  dusted	with	a	little	freshly	grated	nutmeg.




  Serves	1
fluffy	duck




see	variations
  If	 you’re	 hungover,	 one	 look	 at	 this	 smooth,	 creamy	 treat	 should	 make
  you	 feel	 better	 right	 away.	 The	 smoothing	 effect	 of	 Advocaat,	 with	 its
  light	 almond	 flavor,	 mixed	 with	 orange	 juice,	 cream,	 lemonade,	 and	 a
  gentle	kick	of	rum,	is	ideal	for	banishing	those	“morning	after”	blues.

1	fl.	oz.	white	rum
1	fl.	oz.	advocaat
Crushed	ice
1	fl.	oz.	cream
1	fl.	oz.	orange	juice
About	4	fl.	oz.	lemonade

  Pour	the	rum	and	Advocaat	into	a	tall	glass	half-filled	with	crushed	ice.
  Add	 the	 cream	 and	 orange	 juice,	 stir,	 and	 then	 top	 off	 with	 lemonade.
  Serve	with	a	straw.




  Serves	1
snowball




see	variations
  Egg	yolks,	vanilla,	brandy,	and	sugar	make	up	the	liqueur	Advocaat	—
  almost	a	breakfast	in	a	bottle!	In	the	1960s	when	the	Snowball	cocktail
  was	at	the	height	of	its	popularity,	the	alcohol	content	was	so	low	it	was
  disparagingly	written	off	as	a	drink	for	the	girls.	Since	then	more	potent
  brews	 have	 appeared,	 and	 variations	 with	 added	 gin	 or	 vodka	 have	 all
  done	their	bit	to	give	the	feminine	Snowball	a	more	macho	image.

2	fl.	oz.	Advocaat
3/4	fl.	oz.	lime	juice
Ice	cubes
About	1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	lemonade
Maraschino	cherry,	to	serve

  Put	the	Advocaat	and	lime	juice	into	a	cocktail	shaker	with	plenty	of	ice
  cubes.	Shake	vigorously.	Then	strain	into	a	large	wine	glass.	Or,	pour	the
  well-chilled	 Advocaat	 into	 the	 glass	 over	 the	 ice	 cubes,	 and	 stir	 in	 the
  lime	 juice.	 Top	 off	 with	 lemonade	 and	 serve	 decorated	 with	 a
  maraschino	cherry	on	a	cocktail	stick.




  Serves	1
wake-up	call




see	variations
  If	you	have	an	important	appointment	the	morning	after	a	heavy	night,
  this	 will	 probably	 get	 you	 there	 in	 time	 to	 do	 business	 better	 than	 the
  most	insistent	alarm!	A	little	grated	chocolate	sprinkled	over	the	creamy
  coffee	drink	also	proves	that	every	little	bit	helps.

1	fl.	oz.	gold	rum
1	fl.	oz.	Amaretto	Disaronno
2	tbsp.	heavy	cream
1	fl.	oz.	cold	strong	black	coffee	or	a	shot	of	espresso
Ice	cubes
Grated	dark	chocolate,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 rum,	 Amaretto	 Disaronno,	 cream,	 and	 coffee	 into	 a	 cocktail
  shaker	with	plenty	of	ice	cubes.	Shake	vigorously.	Strain	into	a	cocktail
  glass	and	grate	a	little	dark	chocolate	on	top.




  Serves	1
red	restorer




see	variations
  Deflect	attention	from	the	red	eyes	with	this	bright	and	breezy	morning-
  after	 brew.	 The	 long	 list	 of	 superfood	 hits	 found	 in	 pomegranates	 and
  cranberries	means	it’s	also	doing	you	a	lot	of	good!

1	fl.	oz.	pomegranate	juice
1	fl.	oz.	cranberry	juice
1	fl.	oz.	vodka
Crushed	ice
2	tsp.	pomegranate	seeds

  Put	 the	 pomegranate	 juice,	 cranberry	 juice,	 and	 vodka	 in	 a	 cocktail
  shaker.	Shake	vigorously.	Pour	into	a	glass	over	crushed	ice	and	scatter
  pomegranate	seeds	on	top.




  Serves	1
tokyo	bloody	mary




see	variations
  The	 traditional	 Bloody	 Mary	 hangover	 cure	 was	 created	 in	 1921	 at
  Harry’s	 Bar	 in	 Paris,	 but	 the	 inspiration	 for	 its	 name	 was	 reputedly
  America’s	 sweetheart,	 Mary	 Pickford,	 rather	 than	 the	 unfortunate	 Mary
  Queen	 of	 Scots.	 Although	 not	 even	 her	 critics	 implied	 the	 silent-movie
  star	was	in	need	of	morning-after	restoratives,	she	had	previously	drunk
  a	 similar	 cocktail,	 so	 the	 new	 drink	 was	 named	 after	 her	 —	 blood
  depicting	the	tomato	juice	rather	than	any	reflection	on	the	lady	herself!

1/2	cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	tomato	juice
2	fl.	oz.	sake
1	tsp.	mirin
1/2	tsp.	wasabi	paste
Dash	of	Japanese	soy	sauce
Ice	cubes
Celery	stick,	to	serve

  Put	 the	 tomato	 juice,	 sake,	 mirin,	 wasabi	 paste,	 and	 soy	 sauce	 in	 a	 tall
  glass	 over	 ice.	 Stir	 until	 all	 the	 ingredients	 are	 combined.	 Or,	 shake
  together	in	a	cocktail	shaker,	and	then	pour	into	the	glass	over	the	ice.
  Serve	with	a	celery	stick	as	a	stirrer.




  Serves	1
  hair	of	the	dog
  see	variations


  Honey	 is	 prized	 for	 its	 soothing	 qualities	 and	 combined	 with	 whiskey
  and	heavy	cream,	it’s	a	good	way	to	shake	off	those	hangover	blues.

2	fl.	oz.	whiskey
1	1/2	fl.	oz.	heavy	cream
1	tbsp.	clear	honey
Ice	cubes	or	crushed	ice

  Put	 the	 whiskey,	 heavy	 cream,	 and	 honey	 into	 a	 bowl	 and	 whisk
  together	 until	 combined,	 or	 shake	 vigorously	 together	 in	 a	 cocktail
  shaker.	Pour	into	a	tumbler	over	ice	and	serve	with	a	stirrer	and	straw.




  Serves	1
variations


walk	the	line




see	base	recipe


cola	line
Cola	is	another	reliable	stomach-settler.	Replace	the	ginger	ale	with	the
same	quantity	of	cola.


lemon	line
Replace	 the	 lime	 juice	 with	 1	 tablespoon	 lemon	 juice	 and	 top	 off	 with
half	ginger	ale	and	half	lemonade.	Decorate	with	a	lemon	wedge	instead
of	lime	wedges.
bitter	orange	line
Replace	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 of	 the	 vodka	 with	 Orange	 Curacao.	 Decorate	 drink
with	a	small	wedge	of	orange	instead	of	lime	wedges.


flat	line
Replace	the	ginger	ale	with	freshly	squeezed	orange	juice.
variations


bullshot




see	base	recipe


red	rag
Replace	half	the	beef	bouillon	with	tomato	juice.


veggie	bull
Replace	half	the	beef	bouillon	with	vegetable	bouillon	and	add	the	same
amount	of	V8	vegetable	juice.


orange	bullshot
Add	 1	 tablespoon	 freshly	 squeezed	 orange	 juice	 to	 the	 cocktail	 shaker
and	shake	with	the	other	ingredients.


virgin	bullshot
Replace	the	vodka	with	extra	bouillon	or	tomato	juice.	Serve	with	a	little
black	pepper	ground	over	the	top.
variations


eggnog




see	base	recipe


warm	eggnog
In	 a	 small	 pan,	 whisk	 together	 the	 whole	 egg,	 sugar,	 vanilla,	 milk,	 and
cream	 over	 a	 low	 heat	 until	 the	 mixture	 thickens	 slightly	 —	 enough	 to
coat	 the	 back	 of	 a	 spoon.	 Take	 care	 not	 to	 let	 the	 mixture	 get	 too	 hot,
because	it	will	separate.	Put	some	fresh	fruit,	such	as	chopped	pineapple,
pitted	 cherries,	 or	 orange,	 in	 a	 glass.	 Add	 the	 rum	 and	 the	 eggnog.
Sprinkle	with	nutmeg	and	drink	while	still	warm.


nashville	nog
Replace	the	rum	with	bourbon.


vanilla	vodka	nog
Omit	the	vanilla	extract	and	replace	the	rum	with	vanilla	vodka.


dry	orange	nog
Replace	the	rum	with	brandy	and	add	a	dash	of	Orange	Curacao.
variations


fluffy	duck




see	base	recipe


chocolate	fluffy	duck
Prepare	the	basic	recipe,	but	replace	the	white	rum	with	white	Crème	de
Cacao,	and	omit	the	orange	juice.


fluffy	duck	soda
Replace	the	white	rum	with	dark	rum,	omit	the	cream	and	increase	the
quantity	 of	 orange	 juice	 to	 2	 fl.	 oz.	 Top	 off	 with	 soda,	 rather	 than
lemonade.
orange	fluffy	duck
Instead	 of	 making	 the	 basic	 recipe,	 pour	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 gin	 and	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.
Cointreau	into	a	tall	glass	half-filled	with	crushed	ice.	Add	1	fl.	oz.	heavy
cream	and	2	fl.	oz.	orange	juice.	Stir	well,	then	top	off	with	about	1/2
cup	(4	fl.	oz.)	soda	water.


apple	fluffy	duck
Top	off	with	still	or	sparkling	apple	juice	rather	than	lemonade.
variations


snowball




see	base	recipe


dutch	courage
Top	off	with	pineapple	juice	rather	than	lemonade.


warm	and	spicy	snowball
Top	off	with	ginger	ale	rather	than	lemonade.


dutch	breakfast
Replace	half	the	Advocaat	with	gin	and	the	lime	juice	with	lemon	juice.
Top	off	with	sparkling	or	still	apple	juice	and	sweeten	with	a	little	sugar
syrup	if	desired.


melting	snowball
Replace	 half	 the	 Advocaat	 with	 vodka.	 Pour	 the	 Advocaat,	 vodka,	 and
lime	 juice	 into	 a	 glass	 half-filled	 with	 crushed	 ice.	 Top	 off	 with
lemonade.
variations


wake-up	call




see	base	recipe


espresso	wake-up
Replace	the	gold	rum	with	dark	rum	and	double	the	amount	of	coffee.


white	night	wake-up
Replace	 the	 rum	 with	 vodka	 and	 the	 Amaretto	 Disaronno	 with	 white
Crème	de	Cacao.	Serve	with	a	little	white	chocolate	grated	on	top.


dead	of	night
Replace	 the	 rum	 with	 vanilla	 vodka	 and	 the	 Amaretto	 Disaronno	 with
brown	Crème	de	Cacao.


early	riser
Replace	the	rum	and	Amaretto	Disaronno	with	tequila.
variations


red	restorer




see	base	recipe


nervous	breakdown
Replace	the	vodka	with	white	rum	and	add	a	dash	of	Angostura	instead
of	pomegranate	seeds.	Serve	decorated	with	a	twist	of	lime.


headbanger
Stir	 the	 pomegranate	 and	 cranberry	 juices	 with	 sparkling	 vodka	 for	 a
mildly	citrusy	tingle	on	the	tongue.	Pour	over	crushed	ice	and	decorate
with	a	small	lemon	slice	instead	of	pomegranate	seeds.
orange	restorer
Replace	the	pomegranate	juice	with	orange	juice	or	blood	orange	juice.
Decorate	with	a	small	orange	slice	instead	of	pomegranate	seeds.


double	vision
Replace	 the	 pomegranate	 juice	 with	 lychee	 or	 mangosteen	 juice.	 Shake
with	the	other	ingredients	and	pour	into	a	glass	over	crushed	ice.	Omit
the	pomegranate	seeds.
variations


tokyo	bloody	mary




see	base	recipe


bangkok	bloody	mary
Replace	 the	 sake	 with	 lemongrass-infused	 vodka,	 the	 mirin	 with	 sugar
syrup,	the	wasabi	paste	with	hot	chili	sauce,	and	the	soy	sauce	with	Thai
fish	sauce.	Shake	all	the	ingredients	together,	pour	into	a	tall	glass	over
ice,	and	garnish	with	a	thin	twist	of	lemon	or	lime	zest.


traditional	bloody	mary
Stir	or	shake	together	the	tomato	juice	with	the	juice	of	half	a	lemon,	2–
3	 dashes	 each	 of	 Worcestershire	 sauce	 and	 Tabasco,	 or	 1/2	 teaspoon
prepared	horseradish;	2	fl.	oz.	vodka,	and	a	couple	of	grindings	of	black
pepper.	Pour	into	a	tall	glass	over	ice	and	sprinkle	with	a	pinch	of	celery
salt.


acapulco	bloody	mary
Make	as	for	the	traditional	Bloody	Mary,	replacing	the	plain	vodka	with
chili-infused	vodka	or	tequila.	Sprinkle	a	little	deseeded	and	very	finely
chopped	jalapeño	pepper	on	top.


montmartre	bloody	mary
Make	the	traditional	Bloody	Mary	replacing	the	vodka	with	Absinthe	(an
aniseed-flavored	spirit	with	medicinal	flowers	and	herbs).
variations


hair	of	the	dog




see	base	recipe


shaggy	dog
Replace	 the	 cream	 with	 1	 fl.	 oz.	 Cointreau	 and	 1/2	 fl.	 oz.	 crème	 de
banane.	Serve	in	a	tall	glass	topped	up	with	soda.


doggone
Replace	the	whiskey	with	brandy.


walkies
Replace	the	whiskey	with	1/2	fl.	oz.	vanilla	vodka	and	1	1/2	fl.	oz.	plain
vodka.


dog	day
Replace	the	whiskey	with	dark	or	gold	rum.
